# Kevin Hale - How to Evaluate Startup Ideas pt.1

Kevin Hale:Okay, so this is how to evaluate startup ideas, and this is actually a new  set of content that we've developed based on a lot of feedback that we saw  from the last startup school, and what we noticed is a lot of people's challenges.

So last year's curriculum actually had a lot of content that ended up being, when  we looked at the data for who's participating in startup school, was like, "Oh, this  is much more advanced, it's much further along." A lot of people, for instance, like,  "I had no idea." Or like, "I have too many ideas." That they don't know  which one to pursue.

Because a main reason why a lot of people are only  able to work on their startup sometimes part-time, yes, they might be stuck without resources,  but they didn't have conviction.

They didn't know like, "Oh, what would I have to  believe in order to say, 'I want to quit my job'?" This is also a  really great sort of skill to sort of have, because if you are realizing you  need to pivot, how do you evaluate if you need to do that? And then  also if you're pivoting to something else, how do you evaluate whether something is worth  going to? And if you already have a launch company, then you might have problems  with like, "Why isn't this growing?" Or, "How do I improve it?" And evaluating your  start up, especially in the way that sort of investors evaluate startups ideas, we find  it's going to be really, really useful.

This is like myth about Y Combinator is  that people think YC only funds companies who have tons and tons of traction.

That  nowadays the only way to get into YC is you have to have lots of  revenue, or tons of users already.

And part of that has to do with the  press and then the exposure of the companies that make it to demo day; those  are the stories you tend to hear.

But that being said, there's lots of great  examples of companies who actually got accepted just with an idea.

And so, Zenefits is  a really good classic one, Parker was a single, non-technical founder who pitched an idea  to YC and he got in that way; we also had Reddit.

So, technically, they  were forced to pivot right away, so they hadn't written a single line of code.

And then my experience in YC is actually exactly the same.

So when I founded  Wufoo, and we entered that second batch, we also had not written a single line  of code; PG had invested us at just the idea stage.

And so I feel  fully committed now, as a partner, to always be trying to find and dedicate time  and energy to funding companies who are just at the idea stage.

A lot of  our efforts here for working on startup school, is to help you work on how  to talk and think about your startup.

And that if we can fix that, it  can help you sort of inspire us to be like, "Oh yeah, I can believe  in what you're doing." And a lot of times, founders get in the way when  they're telling their narrative.

So how can I predict if an investor will like my  idea? That's, ultimately, what I'm trying to figure out.

And the answer is really easy.

And so for us at YC, the definition of a startup is a company that  is designed or created to try to grow very quickly.

So if you're not trying  to build a company that grows very, very fast, then you're just building a normal  company; it's a small business.

And there's nothing wrong with that, but these companies are  the ones that investors are interested in.

So if you're hoping to build something that  will have tons of users, that will have huge valuations, that'll be able to attract  venture funding, then the evidence that we want is evidence that shows that your company  can grow quickly.

I have a confession to make, if you ever meet me, or  talk to me about your startup, and kind of recruiting, or at one of these  events, I will never tell you that I do not like your idea.

And there's  a reason for that, it's not to be nice to you, it's not to blow  smoke up your ass.

I learned this way of thinking from Paul Graham, he says  like, look, "The average investor, or a lot of the investors that you see, when  you talk to them about your idea, it feels like they're trying to poke holes  in your idea.

They're trying to figure out what's wrong with it, and then they're  trying to show, sometimes, just how smart they are." And he explained that his job,  and the way he sees our work at YC, is that it's not to figure  out what's wrong with company, but to figure out how it could possibly win.

Because  our bets, the ones that win, are the ones that are non-obvious.

And so for  us to figure out the non-obvious stuff, it's going to not sound obvious when they  first tell you.

And so we have to work on our imagination, we have to  work on our optimism to figure out, "Oh what is the way that whatever story  that they're telling me could become a billion dollar company?" And then a great investor  pitches that back to the founder.

I figure out all the ways that I think  whatever you're doing could possibly become big, and then I'm trying to convince you that  this is what needs to happen so that I would have the evidence, or that  you will be on the right path to having a company that grows quickly.

A  startup idea is, basically, a hypothesis and this is the way you should think about  it.

It's a hypothesis about why a company could grow quickly.

And your job is  to figure out how to construct your hypothesis, basically the pitch, to the investor so  they understand how it can go grow quickly.

A lot of times, people make the  mistakes of trying to just accurately describe or over describe a lot of different parts.

So I'm going to break this down.

So just like a normal hypothesis has a  pretty decent structure for this, this will, hopefully, help you sort of workshop like understanding,  "Oh this is exactly all the reasons why this should succeed." And so even before  we start even building anything, we can have an understanding of like, "Oh, here's the  potential path of this company." Or, "Here's the things I need to prove that show  that this comedy could do well." So the first is the problem, so the startup  idea's composed of three parts, the first part is a problem; and it's basically the  initial conditions.

You have to explain to me, "What is the setting for this company  that allows it to be able to grow quickly?" The second is the solution.

So  this is, basically, what is the experiment that you're basically running, within those conditions, for  it to grow really quickly? And the third is what's your insight? So what's your  explanation why the thing that you're going to try, your experiment, is going to end  up being successful? Those are the three components that I'm always trying to figure out  when I'm listening to someone's pitch.

Here's a tip for talking about the problem, or  to know whether your problem, your initial conditions, are correct.

The first is good problems,  they're popular; so a lot of people have the problem.

You want to avoid problems  that there's a small number of people that have it.

We like problems that are  growing so, therefore, the market basically, is it growing at a rate that more and  more people are going to be having the problem? And it's growing faster than other  people's, or other types of problems? We like problems that are urgent, ones that need  to be solved very, very quickly.

We like problems that are really expensive to solve,  because if you're able to sort of solve it, then you can charge a lot  of money, potentially.

We like problems that are mandatory so, therefore, it's like, "Ah, people  have this problem, and they have to solve it." And then we like problems that  are frequent, ones that people are going to encounter over, and over, and over again;  and often in a frequent time interval.

So what you want to have is some  aspect of the problem that you're working on, at least one of them, and it's  ideal if you have multiple of them.

You don't have to have all of them,  but it's one of those things where it's like if your company isn't growing, or  if someone's not as excited about the problem, it's probably missing some of these characteristics.

The last one about frequency is super important because I like problems, and you'll find  a lot of YC partners like problems, a lot, that gives people a lot of  opportunities to convert.

Part of that has to do with some theory, so B.

J.

Fogg, he's a researcher at Stanford, and he tosses this formula up all the time.

And he says basically, "If you're trying to change someone's behavior, you have three things  you need to have in place.

You need to have the motivation, the ability, and  the trigger; they need to all happen at the same time." So the motivation is  like, "I have this problem, I need to solve whatever it is." The ability is  your startup, and the last is the trigger.

What's going to be the thing that  gets them to all of a sudden realize, "Oh, I need to solve it with  your thing?" And so a lot of companies will have like, "Oh I built something  but, for some reason, no one's signing up." Or like, "They're not using it, they're  not engaged, I have no retention." And a lot of the times is because it's  you're hoping that they will somehow just remember, on their own, that they have the  problem, and to start using you.

And, oftentimes, most companies don't send enough, for example,  email notifications, or triggers, or reminders, or figure out ways to come back into the  app, or figure out ways to be back in front of the user at the  right time.

And if you can't figure out those opportunities, it's really hard to get  people to switch over to using your solution, service, or product.

So our ideal problems  are millions of users, millions of people have it.

That's why people like to work  on consumer companies, that's why some investors like to focus on them.

We like markets  that are growing 20% a year; the problem is growing quickly.

We like problems where  people were trying to solve it right now, immediately.

We like problems that just cost  a ton of money; so billions of dollars.

Or at least they all add up  to some billion dollar total addressable market.

We like problems where the law has changed,  and regulation is put up there, and now people have to solve a bunch of  problems.

You saw a ton of healthcare startups were born after Affordable Care Act was  passed.

And a lot of that had to do with there was now, all of  a sudden, opportunity; this problem that all these hospitals and clinics had to solve.

And  then we like problems that people need to solve multiple times a day, or will  use it multiple times a day.

[inaudible 00:10:35]'s a good classic example, but people also  really love Slack, because it's like, "Oh, I'm going to be engaged in using it  multiple times a day during the workday." Solution.

So there's pretty much only one piece  of advice I really have for the solution that's the best advice that you could  ever follow, and that is don't start here.

So what I mean by that is,  at YC we have an acronym for a problem that we try to avoid or,  basically, an application that we have to go like, "Oh man, I wish they had  started with the problem first." And we call it 'SISP', and it means Solution In  Search of a Problem.

And often what happens is you're an engineer, you're excited about  technology, some new technology has come on the scene.

Let's say it's Blockchain, let's say  it's like React Native, or whatever the new thing is and you're like, "I want  to build something with this." It's a large reason why you start working on a  startup project.

And then you go like, "Okay, what kind of problem can I solve  now? I want to use this no matter what." And then you try to shoehorn  a problem into the solution.

And what ends up happening is that's a much more  difficult way to grow the company.

It's not impossible for companies to grow this way,  it's super inefficient.

It's much better to be like, "Let me see what problems people  have, and I will use whatever is necessary to solve them." And, therefore, it's much  more likely that you will grow as a result.

Because the other way around, is  you might have to go and try to drum up the problem, or you have  to brand a problem as something that people have, and it's so much more difficult,  and you end up growing much more slowly as a result.

So look at what  you're building right now, or look at the reason why you're trying to do this  startup, and is it because you only care about the technology and building something in  that? Or have you started with a problem, you go like, "I'm going to do  whatever it takes to solve people, user's, customer's issues." The last one's a little tricky.

It's what is the insight? What's the reason why this solution is going to work?  And this is where a lot of companies sort of get tripped up.

Because it's  really about like what is your company's unfair advantage? Why are you going to win  versus everyone else? Why are you going to be the fastest one to sort of  grow? Because that insight is what's needed for the investor to choose you over anyone  else, and it has to be related to growth.

You have to have an unfair  advantage that explains why you're going to grow quickly.

If it's not related to that,  then it's not going to be something that an investor is going to find valuable.

And the last one is, you need one.

You can't just be like, "I have  a problem, I'm solving it." And then have no explanation why.

Without that last sort  of explanation, I can't use my imagination, I can't evaluate just solely on how well  you've thought through this problem.

And so let's go through the types of unfair advantages  that your company have.

So there's five different types and companies do not have all  of them.

Really great ones, not surprising, will have all of them and we'll go  through two examples.

But you want at least one, and it's nice if you can  have two or three; but for most of you, it's probably just one.

So the  first one, so how do you know if you have a founder unfair advantage? And  so, all of these will be connected to numbers actually, which will help this make  this really easy.

Is like are you one in 10 of all the people in  the world who can solve this problem; are you a super expert? And 99% of  the people we fund at YC, do not fall into that category.

And so if  you think it's like, "Well, I'm a product manager at Google." There's a lot of  product managers at Google.

If you say you're an engineer at Microsoft, there's a lot  of engineers at Microsoft.

It's like great, but it's not one that will make me  think, "Oh, you have a greater unfair advantage than someone else." If you've done a  PhD and, let's say, you've done it on some kind of crazy biotech research, and  you have a special patent to be able to cure some kind of disease; then  you have a founder advantage.

Your market.

Is it growing 20% a year? By default,  if you just build the solution in the space, you should just automatically grow, because  you're just following a trend.

If this is your only company advantage, then it's one  of the weakest ones that you could have.

It is great to be in that  space, but you want to have something in addition to this.

You're going to do  better than average because you've picked the right problem space, and the right set of  customers that want your problem.

But again, if you're in a market that is stagnating  or shrinking, then you're going to have investors worried about the longterm viability of your  company as a result.

Product.

So this is super simple.

Is your product 10x better  than the competition? If it is, then you, potentially, have an unfair advantage; and it  has to be very, very clear.

Someone should be able to look at your product  and go like, "Oh shit, this is so much better than everything else I've ever  seen.

It is 10x faster, it is 10x cheaper, etc." And if it's not an  order of magnitude, let's say, it's just like 2x or 3x, again, that's nice, but  it's not enough for an investor to go like, "Oh, this is a slam dunk."  In regards to that 10x product and showing that you are able to have that  ...

Later in startup school, I'm going to do a lecture on pricing.

And we'll  talk things about cost and value, and that'll help you sort of better understand is  like, "Oh, how to better prove out that 10x multiple using sort of metrics and  numbers and pricing." Acquisition.

So, a lot of people think that if you go to  investor and you've done a bunch of Facebook, or Twitter, or Google ads and you  show your CAC and LTV, that you will able to prove that you have a  sustainable sort of acquisition model.

And I want you to know that if paid acquisition  is the only way that you are able to grow your company, then I'm going  to discount that channel of growth greatly.

That is because if you actually get really  popular, you've actually start being someone significant, let's say, becoming a $100 million revenue company,  then you're going to attract a lot of competitors in this space, and that advantage  is going to quickly dwindle over time.

Blue [inaudible] is a really good example of  this.

Almost all their acquisitions in paid, and then once they ate through that, there's  almost nowhere else for them to sort of go.

You want to find acquisition paths  that costs no money.

And my favorite companies, the ones that become really great, are  the ones that can grow by word of mouth; this is a good percentage of  the way they grow.

And so in the early days of a startup, if you  don't have any money, that's actually very great way of exercising, "How do I grow  this without having to pay for it?" And so in the beginning, we tell you  to do things that don't scale, but this is what you sort of want to  accomplish.

It's like, "Do I have an advantage that is free?" And the last one  is, do you have a monopoly? And so we don't mean this in the monocle  Monopoly game sense, so we mean it as as your company grows, is it more  difficult for you to be defeated by competitors, do you get stronger? And so good  examples of that are like companies with network effects and marketplaces.

Where marketplaces where it  tends to be a 'winner takes all', one company will tend to win.

And network  effects is just, basically, as my network grows, the strength of my company, and the  value of the product or service also grows with it.

Not every company has it,  well when when you do have that, works out great.

There's something to keep in  mind, also, as other things I'm looking to believe about a company, and that is  something that trips up a lot of founders.

And so there's two types of beliefs  that I have about a company.

And so there's the threshold belief, which is like,  "What's the default just for them to even succeed?" So oftentimes, for me, it's like,  "Oh, them building it, can they even build it?" That's a threshold belief.

If they  can't even build it, none of it even matters.

And so, to me, that question  is not the most important.

What will determine whether ...

"I'm going to win the  lotto." Is a miracle belief.

That like, "Oh my God, if I believe that they  can do this, that actually going to be able to take off really well." And  sometimes they're really simple, so if you are heavy engineering team, or doing a B2B,  or enterprise startup, again the default is you have to build it.

So if you  can't even build it, then it's not even going to work, so I don't spend  actually a lot of time looking at that.

For me, I'm trying to figure out  success will be determined by how well you can do sales, how well you can  tell the story, how well you can actually convince customers, and work through a sales  process.

I want evidence that shows that you know have to work through that and  make that happen.

And so, all of my work with most of those companies is  like not working on product, it's like, "Hey, all right, let's prove this other thing."  That if you have that, that'll be the thing that actually will help people go  like, "Oh shit, they have this super combo." Let's go some quick examples.

So YC  is a good one, because we like to think of YC as a startup.

So  the problem.

The way we'd word this is it's hard for founders to raise money  without knowing someone in venture capital.

So at the time that it was started, you  basically had to be an insider, and that was the only way you can sort  of get money; and that super sucked.

And the solution that, basically, Paul Graham came  up with is like, "Invest in companies through an open application, you don't need to  know anyone.

You just tell us your idea, tell us a bit about yourselves, and  that should be enough for you to get funding." Now there's a bunch of unfair  advantages that YC had.

Number one, the founders are pretty incredible.

So Paul Graham had  wrote a textbook on Lisp RTM, wrote the very first worm; he's like amazing programmer.

And they had built and sold the first SAS company that was via web to  Yahoo.

So they were kind of experts at both evaluating technology, and also understanding kind  of startups in that whole process.

The market.

Basically believe that future billion dollar companies  will be technology companies; they'd be powered by software.

And the wonderful thing about tech  companies, especially at that time, was Moore's Law was making it cheaper and cheaper for  software companies to be started and, therefore, they needed a whole lot less money, and  he could make a lot more bets as a result.

The product.

So basically, they  pay the founders, they come for three months, they get some advice, they work on  their product for a relatively small amount of money.

And then at the end of  the time, instead of offering co-working space, they work from their own home, and then  they pitch to a bunch of different investors.

And the idea was that would be  so valuable to a potential founder who had no connections, that it would attract a  lot of really great minds, or a lot of people who were hungry to get  into the space.

Acquisition.

So most of you don't realize this, is PG was able  to sort of build up YC and attract the right talent because he had a  huge reach, or audience, when he got started.

He had written that textbook, yes, but  he also wrote all these popular online essays, and he had a large audience of  his target users, hackers to come and evaluate his product.

And he could acquire them  relatively cheaply just by making a website and letting it be known.

And then the  last one is, something he didn't even realize when he started YC, and that is  that as the YC alumni network grew, it got more powerful and more valuable over  time.

The results are funded thousands of companies, there's 4,000 founders, they're the CEOs of  some of the biggest companies in the world.

They are over 15 companies worth over  $1 billion.

There's 93 companies with over $100 million, and our total market capitalization is  over $100 billion.

I'm going to do one more example with you guys.

So Wufoo,  this was my startup, and it's an online form and survey builder.

And so for  us, it was, basically, if your website needs to collect some kind of data, at  some point, but you need to know how to code or hire a programmer to  be able to do it.

And so the solution was to build something that what  they see is what they got.

Like, basically, a drag and drop visual editor, and  that any non-technical person sort of create.

And then if we did that, we would  solve that sort of specific problem.

So very quickly, the market.

It's kind of ridiculous,  we were asked in the early days calculate our TAM, but it was like, "Every  website needs a form, I don't really understand, what website doesn't need a form eventually?"  It allowed us to grow really, really quickly, our product was easily shown to be  10x faster against the direct competition with other builders, because it was so much faster  to do the drag and dropping and visually see.

And then it'll usually 100x faster  than a lot of traditional routes for very custom forms, for hiring a programmer very  cheaper, because we had this freemium model.

That also led to an acquisition unfair advantage.

And so we actually had started off with building a blog and building an audience  as well.

Started off with 100,000 developers subscribed to our blog, we launched it out  to them after building up that audience for a year; and that's actually what we  applied to YC with.

Is we had built up this audience, we had proved that  all these other things are in place.

And then, part of the other acquisition model  is that you could embed these forms on people's websites, and then our users basically  spread our form and software for us as a result; so we never had to  hire any sales people.

And the results are, our product was used by every industry,  market and vertical you can imagine.

Tons of super large companies, and we did this  with a relatively small amount of team.

When we were acquired, we were a weird  outlier compared to all the other acquisitions.

The average company raises like $25 million before  an exit, and this is their average return.

And for Wufoo, we only raised $118,000  for the whole life of the company, and our returns are over 30,000%.

Okay, so  in the end, this is very simple exercise, but super enlightening once you actually go  through it, and to try to figure out that narrative and story.

So I turn  it back to you, go through and try to answer those questions about problems, solution,  your unfair advantage.

Figure out, "Where are my holes, do I have one?" And then  the question becomes, "Oh, what do I need to prove, what do I need to  work on to make that happen?" Your startup idea is a hypothesis about why you're  going to grow quickly.

For our next lecture, we're going to talk about the first  ways we try to prove it out to, basically, test our hunches, and that is  by talking to users.
