# Eric Migicovsky - How to Talk to Users

Eric Migicovsky:Hi everyone.

My name is Eric Migicovsky.

I'm a partner here at YC.

I actually  started a company that went through Y Combinator back in 2011.

I started a company  called Pebble.

We made one of the first smart watches.

I am really excited to  be here to talk about talking to users because this is one of the perennial  things that you always hear about as one of the critical factors in starting a  company.

The best founders maintain a direct connection to their users throughout the lifespan of  their entire company.

They maintain a direct connection because they need to extract information from  their users at all different stages of running their company.

Oftentimes, people think that they're  the CEO or they're the CTO.

They're the technical product leads of the company.

They  can outsource this research to other people in their company.

They can hire sales people,  they can hire heads of product, but at the core, the best companies are the  ones where the founders themselves maintain a direct connection to their users.

If you are  the CEO, it is your job, it is in your job description, to talk to  customers.

So, take the time to learn how to do it well.

All founders need  to participate in this process as well.

If you're the engineer, if you're the developer,  don't think that you can escape this process just because you're the person who's coding.

 There's a pretty classic scene from the movie Office Space where there's an individual who  says, "I'm the person who is the go-between between engineers and users.

I know how  to talk to people.

I have people skills," and that is one of the things  that you do not want to have happen at your company.

You want to make  sure that the founders and the core members of your company are the ones who  develop the skills for talking to users so you do not have to hire someone  like that to be your go-between.

Talking to users is so critical, that at the  core of YC's teachings, there are only two things that you must do in order  to start your company.

You need to code or build your product and talk to  users.

This is easier said than done.

I want to provide today some tactical advice  on how to plan your strategy for talking to users as well as some questions  and strategies that you can use to conduct your own user interviews at the beginning  of your company.

A lot of the advice that I'll present today is actually synthesized  fantastically in this book, actually written by a YC founder, called The Mom Test.

The  name of the book comes after the process in which we probably all go through  where we want to tell our parents about the company that we're working on, and  we think that by talking to people that love us and want to support us,  we're actually extracting good or useful information about how we could adjust or improve our  company.

But at its core, this is not the best way to get information.

So,  The Mom Test, as Rob actually explains, is three common errors that we make when  we try to conduct user interviews.

The first problem, the first mistake that we pretty  much all make is we talk about our idea.

We're founders.

We love to pitch  our idea.

We love to talk about the the product that we're working on.

But  during a user interview, that is not the time to be pitching the product.

The  goal of a great user interview is to extract information from the person that you're  talking to, to extract data that will help you improve the product or improve your  marketing or improve your positioning.

It is not to sell them on using your product.

 So at the core of a great user interview, you need to learn about their  life.

You need to talk about specifics around the problem area that you're trying to  solve that the user may be going through.

Second mistake that we pretty much all  make is we talk about hypotheticals.

We talk about what our product could be.

We  talk about features that we want to build.

We ask questions like, if we built  this feature, would you be interested in using it or would you be interested in  paying for it? That is wrong.

Instead, talk about specifics that have already occurred in  the user's life.

This will give you stronger and better information in which to make  product and company changing decisions.

You also want to talk in general about the the  user's life.

You don't want to just talk about the specific problem, or sorry, the  specific solution that you're presenting.

Try to extract information about the users, the path that  led them to encounter that problem.

Ask them questions about their life in more broader  ways to extract context around how they arrived at this problem.

Learn about their motivations.

 Learn about why they got themselves into that problem in the first place.

And the  third trap that we pretty much all fall into is that we talk, we talk  a lot.

We're founders.

We're always pitching investors, we're pitching employees, we're trying to hire  people.

We're trying to partner.

So we tend to spend a lot of our time  talking.

In a user interview, try to restrain your interest in talking and really listen.

 Take notes and listen to what the user's saying because in that span of time,  the 10, 20, 30 minutes that you spend with the user, you're trying to extract  as much information as possible so that when you returned to the office and when  you returned to your cofounders, you're bringing hard data, real facts about users' lives to  the table.

I think that there are five great questions that everyone can ask during  their early customer interviews.

The first question is, what is the hardest part about doing  the thing that you're trying to solve? Let's take Dropbox for an example.

Now, many  of you may not remember a world before Dropbox, but put yourself back in the  position of Drew, the founder of Dropbox, in 2005 when he was initially working on  the initial idea of Dropbox while studying at MIT.

Imagine you're in the computer lab  at MIT and you're sitting next to your friend.

You turn and you ask...

You're  working on this project to create Dropbox and you want to learn more about how  other people are sharing files so that you can learn, are there potential users here  or what are the problems that I can help solve with this new technology? So  you turn to your friend and you ask, "What is the hardest part about working  on a group project with school computers?" You're sitting in the computer lab.

It's the  perfect context for asking that kind of question, and you begin an open ended conversation,  trying to extract information about how that person currently works on group projects together with  friends.

Hopefully, you'll learn about specific pain points that they have, like they log onto  a shared computer, they have to get their files from somewhere.

They may have a  network drive attached to the the university system, but they're working with someone who may  not be logged on to a university computer at that time.

Maybe you learn about  problems with synchronizing of shared work.

Maybe you're both working on the exact same document  at the exact same time.

How do you currently attempt to solve that problem? In  general, the best startups are looking for problems that people face on a regular basis  or that they're painful enough to warrant solving.

This question can help confirm for you  whether the problem that you're working on is actually one that real users feel is  a pain point, feel is something that they actively want to solve in their life.

 The second question, to the point that I was making earlier about trying to get  to specifics rather than hypotheticals, is to ask the question, tell me about the last  time that you encountered this problem.

The goal of this question is actually to extract  context around the circumstances in which the user encountered that problem.

For example, in the  Dropbox case, you may be talking to your friend and learn about a week ago,  a specific timeframe.

Who were they working with? Which class were they working working on?  Was this a computer science problem? Was this an English paper? Try to extract as  much information as you can about the context in which they began solving this problem  so that as you develop your product, you'll be able to actually reference real-life examples  of past problems that potential users have had, and you can overlay your solution on  top of that to see if it would have helped in that particular circumstance.

The  third question is, why was this hard? Why was the circumstance in which that student  was trying to work on their shared project, their project with other folks, why was  that hard? What were the specific things that they encountered that were difficult? The reason  why you want to ask this question is because you'll hear many different things from  different people.

Going back to the Dropbox example, you might encounter some people who say  that maybe the number one problem that they were encountering was, when they emailed files  back and forth, they ended up duplicating work because they didn't have the exact same  kind of document at the exact same time.

Maybe other people will say that they  submitted the wrong document in the end to the professor for their group project because  they had crazy strings of file version numbers on the end.

So, the benefit from  asking this question is not just to identify the exact problem that you may begin  to solve with your solution to this problem, but you'll also begin to understand how  you market your product, how you explain to new potential users the value or the  benefits of your solution.

In general, customers don't buy what.

They don't buy the what.

 They buy the why.

So in the Dropbox example, they may not be excited and  overjoyed at saying, "Well, I now have this file sinking tool that can keep all  my files in sync," but by the why, they'll say, "Well, this product will help  with this exact problem that I had just two weeks ago when I was trying  to work on a student project with some of my friends." So, answers that you  get from customers to this question of why.

Why was this past problem that you  encountered so hard may actually inform your marketing or your sales copy as you build  out the rest of your product.

Fourth question is, what, if anything, have you done  to try to solve this problem? One of the biggest things that I've encountered while  helping YC companies over the last few years is that if potential customers are not  already exploring potential solutions to their problem, it's possible that the problem that you're trying  to solve is not a burning enough problem for customers, for them to be even  interested in your better solution to this product.

So this question tries to get at  the root of that issue.

Is the person who encounters this problem already trying to  solve this? In the Dropbox example, you're working on a group project or you're talking  to someone who's worked on group projects in the past.

Try to figure out, what  tools did they experiment with? What tools did they try to use to solve this  in the past? Maybe they solved this by getting all the individuals together in one  room to work on the project with four computers so that they could talk in  real time to each other as they were working on the product.

Maybe they experimented  with email.

Maybe they tried setting up, as one of the top comments on Hacker  News posted during the original Dropbox launch, maybe they had set up [rsync] and they  had already solved this problem with SFTP or something like that.

Again, you want to  ask this question for two reasons.

One is to figure out whether the problem that  you're solving or you're working to solve is even really something that people are already  looking for solutions to.

The second one is, what are the other competition out there?  What will your product be compared against as you end up rolling out your solution  and offering it to end customers? The fifth question is very tactical.

What don't you  love about the solutions that you've already tried? This is the beginning of your potential  feature set.

This is how you ask the...

This is how you begin understanding what  the features are that you'll build out for your better solution to the problem.

Now,  note that this is not the question of, what features would you want out of  a new file sinking product in the Dropbox example, because that's a hypothetical question.

Users  in general are not great at identifying the next features that they want in the  product.

Just like the old Henry Ford quote, when we were developing the automobile, our  users would have wanted a faster horse rather than a car.

So this question specifically  targets, what are the problems with the existing solutions that they've already tried? These are  specifics and you can begin to kind of figure out what the differential between your  new solution and the existing solutions already in the market will be.

Talking to users,  as I said before, is useful at pretty much all stages of your company.

But  there's three critical phases to an early stage company.

I would define that as a  company that has not yet reached product market fit, in which talking to users would  be extremely beneficial.

Those three stages are at the idea stage, before you've even begun  developing any of your product, at the prototype stage, where you have the first kind  of rough beginnings of your product, but you haven't really gotten in the hands of  any paying customers or any users yet.

And the third one, which is after you've  launched and you're iterating towards product market fit, how do you guide that journey? I'll  talk about a few tips for each phase.

At the idea stage, you may have  the back of a napkin idea, you may have a thought, you may be commercializing  some technology that you've been dreaming of, but you don't yet have any first users.

 So, you need to begin finding the first people that will be interested in either  providing information about the problem that they've encountered or potentially signing up to be your  first users.

People come to me and ask, "How can I talk and how can  I find my first users?" Honestly, some of the best companies are products or services  that are built for the founders themself.

So start with yourself.

Test your user interview  strategy on yourself.

Try to walk through a situation where you've encountered that problem.

The  next step after that is to talk to friends, is to talk to coworkers, to  get warm introductions.

It doesn't take a lot of people.

You don't have to talk  to thousands of people.

Every good user research strategy begins with just one or two  people.

The critical feature here is executing a unbiased and detailed customer or user interview  strategy rather than just trying to pitch your idea to them.

Another cool hack that  we've seen some great success with, actually, a YC company in this batch is using  this to...

A YC company in this batch is actually selling products to firefighters, and  they realize that cold email introductions was just not working, was not a way that  they could get through to customers.

So what they did was they actually just dropped  by fire stations in person.

They didn't even email them to say that they were  coming ahead of time.

They just showed up and they said, "Hey, could we speak  to the fire chief? Could we talk to someone about this problem that we've got  a solution to?" And you know what? It worked great.

They managed to get dozens  of in-person, you know, 10 to 15 minute long meetings just by showing up.

So,  when in doubt, if there's a specific target customer base that you're looking to get  feedback from, just try showing up.

It feels a little bit weird because it feels  like you're imposing on someone.

But at the end of the day, the mindset that  I like to get into is, if you truly think that you're solving a problem  that your target customer base is facing, you'll actually be doing them a hand.

You'll  be helping them out by taking their 15 minutes and learning more about the problem.

 Industry events are another great way to get a high number of new customer interactions.

 I remember that when I was working on Pebble, we actually went to CES, which  is this large consumer electronics show in Vegas.

We didn't have a booth.

We just  went in guerrilla style.

We just randomly started setting up meetings with potential users and  we met them in the coffee shop outside of the conference.

We did that for  zero dollars, without any sort of marketing budget just because that was where a lot  of people in the industry were and we knew that there was a high concentration  of potential people that we could talk to.

Some tips for the stage.

Take notes.

 Take detailed notes because like I said before, you'll never know until later which key  facts of these user interviews may be useful.

If you're not great at taking notes  while you're talking to someone, bring a friend, bring a cofounder, ask the person if  you could record it.

When in doubt, capture as much information as possible.

Keep it  casual.

Like I said before, you could just show up.

You don't have to preplan  this.

You don't have to have 20 minute blocks on your calendar scheduled for days  on end of user interviews.

Feel free to react.

Honestly, you'll learn so much through  the first five or ten user interviews that your process will dramatically improve from those  first interviews to the next batch.

So don't feel like you have to do a  hundred user interviews all at the same time.

Just start with one, start with three,  start with five until you get the hang of it.

The third thing is you  need to be cognizant of the other person's time.

Again, going back to what I  said at the beginning, we love our idea, we're founders, we love talking about our  ideas.

So you need to keep yourself in check and make sure that you're cognizant  of the other person's time.

Honestly, you'll be able to get probably the best information  out of, say, a 10 to 15 minute long first interview, and that might be  all the time you need just for that initial chat.

As you move past the  idea stage into testing your prototype with users, the next major kind of benefit that  you can get from talking to users is figuring out who will be your best  first customer.

This is critical because it's possible that if you choose the wrong first  customer, that you may be led down a path that constrains you or artificially traps  you without actually getting paid by that first customer.

So, we've created a framework that  you can use to begin to identify, before you begin working with them, who the  best first customers will be.

During user interviews, at this stage, I love to ask  questions that extract numerical answers to three facts about the customer that I'm working with.

 The first one that I want to get to the bottom of is, how much  does this problem cost them today? And I like to get a hard number, either  in terms of how much revenue do they stand to earn if they solve this  problem or how much expense do they currently spend trying to solve this problem? How  much money is wasted today as they try to solve this problem.

Second one that  I like to get to the bottom of is, how frequently do they encounter this  problem? Do they encounter it on an hourly basis, a daily basis, quarterly basis, yearly  basis? The best problems that startups can target are ones that are encountered more frequently.

 This is usually beneficial for two reasons.

One is, they encounter a problem on a  more regular basis.

It means that the customer's feeling the pain of that problem on  a more regular basis, and they'll be much more receptive to a potential solution.

The  second reason why you want to tackle a problem that people encounter on a more  frequent basis is, you'll get more chances to know whether your product is actually solving  a problem.

In my case with Pebble, I love the fact that I was working  on a device that was kind of intended to be used every day.

You know,  you wake up in the morning, you put your watch on.

That was great for  me because I knew that if they weren't, if users weren't wearing their watch on  a regular basis, that meant that I was doing something wrong.

So the best first  customers are ones that have this problem very frequently.

The third thing that you want  to get to the bottom of is, how large is their budget for solving this  problem? You can imagine that, say you're solving something for an industrial assembly line, a  problem on the industrial assembly line.

If you're talking to the operator, the person who's  actually there on the assembly line, they may encounter this problem on a really regular  basis, but they just don't have the budget.

They don't have the authority to actually  solve the problem.

That's their boss or that's someone above them in the office or  in the headquarters.

So, again, as you're trying to identify the best first customers, make  sure that you're trying to, make sure that you're asking questions about whether they actually  have the ability to solve the problem, given the choice.

I like to visualize answers  to these three sets of customer questions as overlapping Venn diagrams, with best first customer  being at the center of the Venn diagram where they have the highest numerical answers  to the three questions that I outlined.

Let's take a quick example.

Imagine if you're  working on like a super smart blender that's designed to produce the tastiest new fruit  smoothies.

You talk to several users.

Let's say you're talking to McDonald's, The French Laundry  and the Google cafe.

You create a spreadsheet that simply has three columns with the  answers to the questions that you've extracted through your user interviews.

This data can actually  be used in prioritizing which customer you begin to sell your product to first.

For  example, the French laundry is an amazing restaurant up in Napa.

Maybe they have an  opportunity to roll out a new, extremely fancy over-the-top smoothie with your new technology.

They  can extract a lot of money from each sale, but the frequency is not that  high.

There's just not that many customers that are interested in a fruit smoothie at  The French Laundry, and you're talking to maybe the sous-chef at the restaurant, so you  realize that they don't really have that much money to solve this problem even if  they wanted to.

The other potential customer that you're talking to is the chef at  one of the Google cafes.

Unfortunately for you, Google gives away their food for free  to their employees so that person doesn't actually stand to earn more money or save  that much more money if they were to use your new smoothie technology in their  restaurant.

Granted, there are a lot of Googlers, so there probably would be a lot  of smoothies made per week, but at the same time, again, they just don't have  the budget to be able to really dig into this problem.

So, you learn through  the initial customer interviews that McDonald's is actually the best potential first customer for your  product.

While even though the cost of a new smoothie at McDonald's may not bring  in a large dollar amount per transaction, they have a ton of stores and each  of those stores services a ton of people.

On top of that, you happen to  get a warm introduction to the chief food officer of McDonald's, which I'm not even  sure they have, but that person actually controls a multibillion dollar budget.

And if they  wanted to solve this problem, they would have the authority and they would have the  the budget to do so.

So you put that information in your spreadsheet, and you  actually do a simple stack rank that just pulls the best answers to those questions  up to the top.

You can use this framework for pulling together all of the  information that you get from various user surveys to find the best customers.

The last  stage before product market fit that can benefit from user interviews is actually the process  of iterating towards product market fit.

Paul Graham's cut definition for product market fit is  when you've made something that people want.

Mark Andreessen and also has an amazing blog  post about a product market fit, where he describes it as when the product is  just being pulled out of you.

When you no longer have to push the product  on customers.

They're just pulling it, pulling it from you.

But the problem with these  definitions of product market fit is that they're vague.

They're also retroactive in that you  have to already have product market fit in order to know that you've reached it.

 So they're not as useful for helping you figure out which features you need to  build in order to iterate, in order to improve your product to get to product  market fit.

You may have heard of the app Superhuman, which is a super fast  email client.

Well, the CEO published an amazing blog post a little while ago about  how he built a, well, how he was actually annoyed with this vague definition of  what product market fit is and how it was a lagging indicator that didn't help  him predict product market fit.

It only told him whether he'd achieved it or not.

 He wanted to create a real time quantitative system that'd help guide his company towards  product market fit, and of course it involved talking to users.

He wrote a great  blog post on this.

You could just Google it.

Just going to touch on it,  but I would highly recommend reading the entire thing because it is fantastic.

In it  he describes a process where on a weekly basis he asks pretty much all his  customers, but it doesn't even have to be your entire customer base, it could just  be 30, 40 users, a critical question.

How would you feel if you could no  longer use Superhuman? Three answers? Very disappointed, somewhat disappointed, not disappointed.

He measured the percentage  of users who answered the question, very disappointed.

These are the users who most value  your product.

These are the users who your product has now become a key part  of their life.

It's kind of weaseled their way into their daily habits.

He read  some analysis that said that If 40% or more of your user base reports that  they would be very disappointed if your product went away on a weekly basis, that  that's kind of the signal.

That's the the differentiation point that it says, if you  get past this point your product will just grow exponentially.

He evaluated a number of  other successful companies and realized that the answer to this question was always around or  above 40%.

So, again, I probably won't be able to go into it too much  more in detail, but I would recommend reading this blog post.

If you're at the  stage where you're iterating and you actively have users that you can ask this question  of, this can be an immensely useful thing for quantitatively determining whether the features that  you worked on in the previous week were actually benefiting or adding to your product  market fit or potentially detracting from it as well.

Some other great tips that we've  found at this stage is kind of a simple hack.

Ask your users for the  phone number during signup because oftentimes you'll be looking at the data and you'll be  wondering, why is the data showing this particular kind of learning about our customers? You  may be thinking in aggregate, 20% of people have this problem.

Sometimes it helps to  just get on the phone and talk to one person who is encountering this problem.

 So I always encourage founders to put contact information, including phone number, which is a  direct connection to customers, pretty high up in the user signup flow.

Second one is  don't design by committee.

You can't simply ask your users what features they want.

You  have to begin to understand whether those features are truly going to help make your  product more sticky and more useful.

You can do this through the advice that the  Superhuman CEO lays out in his blog post.

Or you could ask other tactical questions.

 Instead of asking, will users be interested in using this new product or this new  feature, instead say, "Here's an upgrade flow.

If you want this new product, put your  credit card, or if you want this new feature, put your credit card information or  pay more." Even before you actually built out the feature, this could help give you  information about whether the feature that you're working on is actually something that the users  are gonna use.

The third thing to do during user interviews at this stage is  to remember to discard bad data.

Some of the kind of worst bad data that  you may encounter is compliments.

People may say, "Oh, I love the new design," or  "Man, this thing is really useful." You may love that during the course of your  user interviews, but they actually are not useful information because it's not specific.

It's more  of a general statement about your product and it's not tactical.

It's not giving you  correct information on what you can change or what you can improve about your your  product.

The second main type of bad data that you may encounter is fluff.

These  our hypotheticals.

These are generic statements.

Whenever you're in the middle of a user interview  and you start getting onto this hypothetical, oh, here's what the product may look like  in the future, try to steer it back to specifics.

Again, you're conducting a user  interview, not to pitch your product, but to learn about problems or issues that the  user has faced in their past so that you can improve it in the future.

 That's it.

That was meant to be a quick, short dive into talking to users.

 I don't know if we have any time for questions.
Speaker 2:We have some time.
Eric Migicovsky:Cool.
Speaker 2:[inaudible 00:31:06].
Eric Migicovsky:Awesome.

Well, I'd love to answer any questions, but other than that, thank you.

Thank  you very much.
