# Adora Cheung - How to Set KPIs and Goals

Adora Cheung:Alright, so I am going to be talking about setting your KPIs and goals for  early stage startups.

I'm going to be pretty pedantic in this lecture and the reason  why is, doing this correctly is a necessary condition for starting a successful, or building  a successful startup.

The acronym KPI stands for key performance indicator.

If you Google around  for it, there are actually many definitions of what this actually means, but for the  purpose of today, for this context, I'm going to define it as a set of  quantitative metrics that indicate how healthy your business is doing.

This is important because obviously  you should know what state your business is in at all times.

Setting the right  KPIs and goals will objectively tell you if you're doing well, just okay, or bad.

 Nothing keeps you more grounded, humbled, and realistic about where you are than a bunch  of numbers, because if you interpret those numbers correctly, they don't lie.

It will also  act as a feedback mechanism for whether your current strategy like user acquisition, building new  features, launching new features, and so on and so forth, are actually working.

So, if  you do something and things go up, that's probably good.

If you do something and  some things go down, that's probably bad.

It will not only help you prioritize your  time, but also course correct.

So, it follows, if you do this incorrectly, if you  set your KPIs and goals incorrectly, you can direct your startup into a bunch of  circles, or if you do it for too long onto the wrong path, it'll lead  to it's unnecessary demise.

So, what are the right KPIs to set? I'm going to  break this down into two pieces, primary metric and secondary metrics, and most of today  is going to be focused on the primary metric.

So, every week in startup school  we've asked you in a software to fill out, to define your primary metric, and  then update its current value.

By definition, you can only pick one, one primary metric,  and it's the metric, if you had to, you'd be willing to bet the whole  company on.

So, why just one metric? It's a way to focus and keep things  very simple.

If there's a way to get 90% of the job done with just  one variable, that's better than having a bunch of variables that gets, let's say, 91%  of the job done.

In this case, the job to get done is quickly determining  how well your startup is doing.

So, what are the characteristics of a good primary  metric? There are four of them.

One, so your primary metric should quantify how much  value you're delivering to your customer.

That is, you obviously want to build something that  people want.

Now, how much do they actually want it? And users often indicate the  value through either training you through money or time.

So, revenue is always the best  metric.

I pay you $100 to use your product, your software, I must at least  value that $100.

Active users using the product once a week or once a day,  we call that weekly active user or daily active user, is weaker but another good  decent indication of whether you're delivering your value or not.

The second one here is,  your primary metric must capture whether your product has recurring or enduring value to your  user, or it should anyway.

So, for example, in a SAS tool, most SAS tools  use MRR, monthly recurring revenue, as their primary metric.

I commit to forking over 100  bucks a month continuously every month because your product demonstrates to me every month that  it has value to me.

Another example is if you're building an online digital daily  newspaper, then obviously DAU, daily active user, is a good one because I expect you  to be delivering content to you that is valuable to you every single day.

So,  hopefully, you'll come back every day.

The third one here is your primary metric should  be a lagging indicator for success.

So, a common trap that founders do to trick  themselves is by picking a primary metric, let's say something like email signups, because one,  it's easy to move, but while it may eventually influence revenue or actual usage, it  actually doesn't represent real value the best.

The best indication is when the value has  already been delivered, it's already occurred.

So, when someone has already forked over their time  or money to use it, then that is what a ...

That's a definition of  what a lagging indicator is.

If revenue increases, it's because more customers have already paid  for the product's value versus a potential customer who came to your site, gave you  an email, and maybe they'll sign up one day, or maybe they'll use your product  one day to buy something.

Lastly, your primary metric should be usable as a feedback  mechanism.

That is, it helps you prioritize strategies and make decisions quickly.

In a startup,  one of the key things to being successful and getting past product market fit stage  is to iterate very fast, right? So, while you want it to be a lagging  indicator, you also don't want it to lag too much.

So, for example, a lot  of people pick MAU, monthly active user, but this is usually not a great metric  because it takes time to understand the impact of movement, especially in a startup this  early as in your startup.

And so, many things can happen within a month.

And  also, another reason why I don't like MAU generally is because if your user only  comes back once a month, they only value something that you're building once a month.

 I really question actually if you're solving a real problem.

All right, so you may  have guessed from me talking about these four characteristics of a primary metric that there  are really two primary metrics to pick from.

One is either revenue or active users.

 Ideally you're picking revenue because nothing tells you more about delivering real value than people  forking over, or handing over real hard earned dollars to you.

And even better is  picking revenue that people keep giving you over, and over, and over again, like monthly  recurring revenue, MRR.

It's the best test for whether people really want what you're making.

 That being said, some people do pick revenue, but a common trap they fall into  is that they don't actually get paid.

And usually, I hear something to the variance  of, "Oh, I'm going to get these ...

I have these 1000 users not paying  me anything.

I just want to get their feedback and see how they're using the  product and make it a little bit better.

And then, eventually I'll get them to  pay, or the next 1000 users I'll get them to pay." That's a trap because  free users will give you different types of feedback than users who are actually paying  you.

Paid users are just more serious about the product, and hopefully will be more  serious about giving you feedback.

So, I urge you to just get paid.

All right.

 So, what are reasons why ...

So Kevin, in the early lecture, said 99% of  you should actually use revenue as your primary metric.

What are reasons why you should  consider active users? One main one is because building a large audience is actually a  prerequisite to modernization.

An example of this is if your business model's advertising-based, like a  Facebook or Google, then yeah, you need millions and millions of users coming back to  your site every day before you can actually get brands and people to buy ads.

 And so, in this case, active users is actually a reasonable proxy for revenue because  eventually when your start up starts making money, it's usually just, a revenues is just  a multiple of your active users.

Another reason is also, but much, much more, much  more rare is, if you have very strong network effects.

That is if you're like  a marketplace that requires tons of users to just get the flywheel going and grow,  then maybe that's a reason for you to focus on active users today versus revenue,  and then, just do revenue later down the road.

Now, that being said, if you're  using active users as a metric, it's important that you define user properly.

I hear  often, I ask, "Okay, how many users ...

What's your primary metric?" "Active users." "How  many users do you have?" "I have a hundred users?" What does users mean in  that situation? Sometimes, to people, it means a hundred users that just signed up and  gave you an email.

Sometimes, it means a hundred users that signed up and started  using your product and then, come back every day for about 10 minutes a day,  which is by far much better than just people just diddle doodling on your site,  right? So, you really need to get that definition correctly and don't trick yourself by  just saying users and having a really easy definition of users.

Another example of users  where it's not exactly users is if you're in a marketplace and there are two  types of customers.

There are two types of users.

So, a good example is Airbnb.

 Who are your two users? You have not just the guests but you also have  the host.

So, what are you to do? How do you pick just one? Well,  you pick a value that actually represents them both getting values.

So, in Airbnb's case,  it would be nights booked, right? Another example is Uber.

So, who are your two  users there? You have riders and you have drivers, and so, an example of a  primary metric you could pick there is weekly trips.

Okay? All right.

So, there are  always exceptions to the rules, and there is one exception in which your primary metric  is neither revenue or active users.

That is if you run a biotech or hard  tech business, and you're still trying to figure out whether the science or tech is  actually going to work.

Can you actually build a product? Another definition of this is,  for our biotech, hard tech business is, it often takes a lot of time and  money to get your first product to market.

So, what's a founder to do, especially  if you have little funding? So, there's two answers to this.

One is, if there  are no regulatory issues to doing sales for your product, you should actually do the  same as everyone else.

It should be most likely revenue.

Your primary metric should be  revenue in the form of paid contracts, LOIs, POC is proof of contracts.

Proof that  if you build it, they will actually come.

Now, if you are in a space  with regulatory issues, meaning you can't sell it at all without having to go through  like the FDA or some kind of body like that, then your product primary metric  is actually less quantitative per se, and more of a binary thing.

So, it's about  figuring out the technical milestones that you need to demonstrate, to mitigate the risk of  whether the drug or tech is working.

So, if you have to think about experience  to prove this out, you can ask a question like, what are the minimal things  I need to do to truly answer the question of whether this works or not?  So, if you fall into this category, I urge you to actually just go watch  these two lectures.

They are actually fireside chats I did last startup school with Elizabeth  and Eric.

Elizabeth is an expert in biotech, and Eric is an expert in hard  tech, and they actually go through deep, deep, deep, deep, deep dive into how do  you think about your goals and how do you think about your milestones, and what  metrics to actually track? All right, so people have referred to the primary metric as  a North Star metric.

And I actually don't like the term North Star because it  kind of ...

People have interpreted it as something you just focus on this one  metric and then ignore everything else.

But like I said earlier, there's no metric that  actually tells a story, that tells 100% of the story.

Maybe 90%, but not 100%.

 Sometimes, founders fool themselves by literally only tracking their primary metric and nothing else.

A  common example is just looking at user growth and just ignoring retention completely, but retention  is obviously just as important to user growth as this new user acquisition.

So, one  suggestion I have is to select a set of three to five other metrics, secondary  metrics, to pair with your primary metric.

This gives you a good 360 degree overview  of the health of your company, so, there are a ton to choose from, so  many to choose from.

What you choose is actually very dependent on your business.

Next  week, we're going to have two lectures on these sorts of metrics for consumer.

I'll  be giving one on consumer startups, and another YC partner I know will be giving  one on B2B companies, and so, we'll deep dive in these metrics, next week.

The  key here though is just picking a few, at most, five, three to five, closer  probably to three.

You don't want to boil the ocean and pick everything.

Usually, it's  fine to track all this kind of stuff, but it's really not a good idea  to optimize too many at once, you'll really just suffer from analysis paralysis.

All right,  so common question I have when I say, "What is your primary metric? You should  set one," is, "Well, what if I haven't launched yet?" Well, obviously, metrics don't matter.

 If you don't know what the problem you're solving is, you don't even know who  your customer is yet, you should really just focus on that first.

You'd be really  putting the cart before the horse by worrying too much about this kind of stuff.

 That said, once you get to the point where you're building the product, it's really  a good idea to get this down, even if you haven't launched yet.

By at  least defining your primary metric, you'll be able to think about who your user really  is.

You get everyone on the same page on who you're targeting, and even you  can use the metrics and goals to hypothesize on how you might get your first  few users.

And trust me, nothing is more motivating than staring down the barrel of  zero users and $0 of revenue for weeks on end.

You're going to get very  antsy about launching very quickly and that's actually the fact you want.

All right, so  I'm going to go into how do you set goals for your primary metric, for  your KPIs.

So, Paul Graham actually wrote a great essay a few years ago called  startup equals growth, and explains why a startup should focus on growth, and I really  urge you to go read it.

This section of this lecture draws a lot of  insights from it.

The goal of your startup is to grow your primary metric.

By  doing this, it does two things, it proves that you're making something, lots of people  want, and second, it proves you're making something that has a possibility of reaching and  serving all those people.

Each week, your goal should actually be to set a weekly  growth rate.

Now, we use weekly increments because startups early on need frequent feedback from  their users to tweak what they're doing.

But also we use weekly growth rate because  it helps to divide up the progress you need into doable chunks.

So, say your  goal in a couple of months is to get 10,000 daily active users, which requires  growing new users, let's say 10% week over week, to grow 10% this week may  amount to actually just getting a hundred new users, which is a different problem to  solve than trying to get 10,000 new users, right? You should be focusing on what's  directly ahead of you in that week.

Do things that don't scale today, if that's  actually the best way to get those hundred users, and don't worry about the eventual  goal of 10,000 too soon.

So, naturally, the next question is how fast should [inaudible]  grow? What should this rate actually be? Well, there's no good formula.

There's no right  formula for this, but one angle that we could tackle it from is looking at  good startups and seeing how fast they were growing in the beginning stages of their  life.

So, I actually went back and I looked at the good startups who pitched  in recent YC demo days.

So, if you think about these startups, they were three  months prior, they were all in the phase that you are probably in today.

It  turns out the growth rates range anywhere from 20% to 200% month over month, but  clustered more closely to 20% to 50% month over month, which you could back up,  back it out.

It amounts to about five to 10% week over week.

And so,  this chart, just to explain it real quickly, the left hand column is the weekly  growth rate, and then, these are the equivalents that you need to grow by month,  and then what the multiple is by year.

So, this is actually in line, if  you read that essay, PG wrote a few years ago, which he said, "A good  growth rate during YC is 5% to 7% a week.

If you can hit 10%  a week, you're doing exceptionally well." And so, this is the green area, which we've  seen consistently actually in the recent batches of YC.

So, growth is a little hard  to grok, but if you look at this chart, you'll see that how small variations  in weekly growth rates can make a huge difference on the monthly and yearly time  horizon.

You also get the sense that to get big fast, it actually seems doable  if you have something people want.

On the flip side, if you only manage 1%  weekly growth, it's a sign you haven't figured out things yet.

It doesn't mean that  you have a horrible business.

You can run a great small profitable business growing 1%  week over week, but it's not a good sign that you have a startup with  a billion dollar potential.

So, you should think about that trade off there and what  you really want out of your business if you're growing at that rate.

That said,  the main thing in terms of setting your goals is to think for yourself, is  to define your own goal based on not what others are doing, but what you  think is ambitious and achievable based on the product you're building.

You knew your users  and business better than everyone else.

What does success look like for you and what  does being on track look like to you? Here are some general guidelines when defining  a goal.

All right.

First, if you're solving a real problem in a large market,  then that means there's a ton of latent demand out there.

People would use up  just about anything to use your product, even if it's half-broken, or half-baked, or just  solves a bit of their problem, which means that startups usually have fast initial growth.

 That said, where you are today matters.

So, if you have a ton of users  and a ton of revenue, you will probably know that at that volume, as a  volume increases, what you need every week to grow gets harder over time.

Again, most  startups they grew very quickly and then over some time they kind of, the growth  rate kind of slows down a little bit.

The second one is time to sell.

 So, when you try to set your goal, you need to consider how long it  takes to acquire user and make a sale.

For a consumer startup, generally, you have  an app or a website.

I show up to it, I look at it, I  see if I want it, and then if I do, bam, I buy it, or  I sign up for it, and so, it's instantaneous.

For an enterprise startup, where you're  actually probably going through some red tape, you have a bunch of stakeholders you have  to deal, like, you can show up to the company and they're not going to  be able to even buy it right away, because you're maybe not even talking to  the right person.

So, it might take some months to actually get your first sale,  so you will have to take that into account.

Over time, this time to sale  should actually decrease over time, like good enterprise startups, that time to sale goes from  months to hopefully days, if not hours, and so it shouldn't impact your growth rate  in the future, but in the near term it actually might.

Third is, you really  want to focus on organic versus paid users, or paid growth in the beginning.

Organic  means they discover it through word of mouth.

Basically, you're not paying for the user,  they just maybe searching for it and using it themselves.

I think in the early  days, using paid users is actually cheating growth, and you should avoid it as much  as possible.

Finally, because you're a startup, startups equals growth.

You should focus on exponential  goals and not linear goals.

All right, so in terms of picking the goals, I  think there's two ways to do it.

One, you can just pick a growth rate,  and then, pick up a growth rate that you think you can hit, and if  you hit it, great, you probably should change it.

If you're hitting it consistently to  something higher.

If you don't, if you're not hitting it, then you should be a  little bit alarmed and you should figure out why.

Another way to do it is  time box and absolute goal.

So, what I mean by for that is, say for  the purpose of startup school, at the end of startup school, how many active users,  or how much revenue do you want to have? What would it look like? What  would something meaningful look like at the end of 10 weeks? Then, go back out  your weekly growth rate, and then, go week to week figuring out the obstacles and  how you should hit that weekly goal.

In the beginning, if you're somewhere close to  zero users today, often you'll get something higher, if you do this method, then 5%  to 7% week over week.

Tracking progress, so metrics and goals obviously don't mean anything  if you don't leverage them.

Use these as a motivational tool.

So, one way to  do this is get a piece of paper, draw a forward looking graph of what  the growth you want to hit in the next 10 weeks.

Print it out and  put it everywhere, put it in the top of your desk, put it in the  bathroom mirror, put it on the fridge, and update once a week.

This is in  fact what Airbnb founders did in the beginning, and if they hit the numbers, great,  if they did not, then, that's all they would talk about, and so, I would  follow something like this.

Now, you want to leverage your prior metric and goal to  help you prioritize your time week over week.

So, week to week, you should be  stacking ranking all the ideas you have of how to grow it and make a  good guess on what's going to have the biggest impact for the next week to  meeting your goal, and then, choose accordingly.

Occasionally, you won't hit your goal for the  week.

We can dream that our growth will be flawless and look like this, but  in reality, in the beginning it always looks something like this.

It's okay if you  don't hit your goal one or even two weeks in a row as long as  you understand why.

You should be always asking yourself what is the biggest obstacle in  my way of hitting my weekly target? How do I overcome this and be obsessive  of this? If you don't know the answer, then, the answer is go talk to  more users and don't spin in circles trying to figure it out yourself.

A good  startup idea will keep growing at some point, so not hitting your weekly targets week  on end will maybe just help inform you you're not working on the right thing,  or even the right idea.

Finally, to end, as you already know, our startup school  software asks you to set your primary metric and goals.

It is important to be  honest about where you are, and one of the best ways to do that is  to fill this out every week.

We've given you the software to do this very  easily.

It is not for us, I promise you, it is for you to use  and get in the habit of doing it.

We hope you fill this out throughout  the course, and moving forward, even after the course you keep doing it.

It's a  good habit to have.

I guarantee you, if you're not already doing this, just adding  this one simple thing to your workflow is going to help you and change things  dramatically.

All right, so I am going to take questions.
Speaker 2:So, for a non-profit, what would your suggestion be for primary metric and secondary metrics?
Speaker 1:The question is, for a nonprofit, how should you set your primary metric? The nonprofits  that we actually work with at YC, we want them to get in the state  where they don't have to rely on going out for donations every quarter or every  year, and so, it's actually to develop a revenue model.

And so, while that you're  not looking to seek tons and tons in profit, you should still be having revenue  coming in the door.

And so, I would probably use that as a yardstick.
Speaker 3:Yeah.

Is LTV ever a good metric to, a secondary metric, to measure for a  startup, or is it too early to even think about it?
Speaker 1:Good question.

So, the question is, is LTV a good secondary metric or even a  metric to track? So, I'm assuming all of you guys are early stage startups, and  the answer is that you should just ignore it for now.

So, LTV is lifetime  value.

Basically, it's how much revenue your customer is actually going to generate over the  course of the life with your product.

And that's so hard to estimate or actually  impossible to estimate when you have just a few months of data, or any data  at all.

I'm actually going to talk a lot about this next week, but just  to give you a preview, like the jargon LTV is often paired with CAC.

So,  people are like, "Oh your LTV should be more than CAC." CAC meaning, customer acquisition  cost.

I think the more important thing, if you're focused on paid growth, is to  look at payback period in the early days, and hopefully that payback period is zero,  like zero days.

Like, you are profitable on the first buy.

Yeah.

Right there.
Speaker 4:If you're an enterprise-focused startup, would you consider tracking on the [inaudible] pipeline value, [inaudible],  or would you still be tracking on everything?
Speaker 1:Yeah, so the question is, if you're an enterprise startup, meaning the sales cycle is  a little bit longer, should you actually be tracking something else? Like, what did you  call it?
Speaker 4:[inaudible] pipeline value.
Speaker 1:Oh, pipeline value, and so, like our LOIs or something like that, so I think  these are great secondary metrics to actually track.

Ultimately, you want the revenue, the actual  revenue, that's booked and that you're getting in the door.

And so, enterprise startups do  often have metrics like that, that they're tracking in the near term because it's ...

 the actual revenue is zero for a really, really long time, but yeah, so, hopefully,  that answers your question.

Yes?
Speaker 5:So, about not having the CAC paid users in the beginning.

The consumer are facing,  for example, problems, they [inaudible] a few practical kick-starter.

Right now, the kick-starter, obviously, are  hard to [inaudible], you have to think through that.

What percentage of CAC is approved  right here from the sales, from the price of the product in the beginning? Because  in the beginning, obviously, we have to pay something prior to getting more of that  for some cases.
Speaker 1:So, the question is, if you're building a hardware product, often you need to do  marketing campaigns, which requires a bunch of money.

And so, I believe the question is,  what is an ideal CAC to actually spend? Obviously, zero and so, I think when  I think about CAC, I'm thinking about not maybe like a fixed marketing budget.

Like,  maybe you do need to spend like X number of dollars to do a video  for your kick-starter campaign.

What I mean by CAC is the amount you have to  pay and scale on a per user basis.

So, to acquire a user I need  to pay $50 moving forward.

And so, obviously you don't want to be paying $50  if you're not making $50 from the customer.

So, at the very least you should  be breakeven, do not pay more than what the customer is actually giving you on  a profitable basis, on a margin basis.

Again, I question whether people actually want to  buy this product.

If your whole entire strategy is just paying for users because at  some point, even if you pay for users, they hopefully enjoy the product so much  that they're talking about it, and that word of mouth and referrals or things like  that are actually starting to go.

And so, your CAC, hopefully, if you have to  start with one, is going down over time.

All right, one more.
Speaker 6:If you need funding to build your MVP, is your MVP too ambitious?
Speaker 1:If you need funding to build your MVP, is your MVP too ambitious? It depends  on, so Michael just gave a whole lecture on MVP, and then, also I'm guessing  you're thinking about his definition of heavy MVP.

I think there are many ways to  answer that question, but if you're on one of those business that requires a lot  of capital to get the first product to market, then you'll have to find other  ways then to obviously get funding, whether it's pre-sales, if you can do pre-sales, that's  the best way to do it.

Paid contracts, just guaranteed revenue upfront to help you  build your product.

The other way, if you have to go to investors, is again,  investor is going to want the situation as de-risked to him or her as possible.

 And so, I would be setting up experiments that help output data that shows that  what I'm building is actually feasible, and actually people want it.

Cool? All right.

That's  it.

We'll next have [Elia] from segment.

Thanks.
