# Ilya Volodarsky - Analytics for Startups

Ilya Volodarsky:Hi everyone.

My name is Ilya.

I'm one of the co-founders at Segment.

And I'm  here to talk to you about how to set up analytics and the analytics foundation  to build your MVP, and to measure these primary and secondary metrics.

So this is  going to be a little bit more of a tactical guide around what tools are  there in the analytics space, in the marketing space, which ones should we actually be  using? How do I set them up? Cool.

Just before I get started, a lot  of you may not know what Segment is.

It's an analytics API where you can  send analytics data, and then toggle on different tools.

So we sit in the cool  market position where we can actually see what tools startups are using.

And we can  bring that information to you.

And secondly, we've been around for about six years.

And  so we have information about a lot of different startups as they grew and what  tools they used.

So we're going to be sharing a lot of those today.

Cool.

 So why talk about ...

Why even focus on the analytics? Obviously primary and secondary  metrics drive the MVP and product market fit process.

And you're using that to actually  test product market fit.

You're also using it once you get out of product market  fit strict search, to actually focus the team.

So maybe there's going to be an  acquisition issue in the company that's preventing your growth.

Or maybe the users that you're  getting aren't as engaged, or maybe you're having some monetization issues.

And so the funnel  actually is a forcing function to understand your business and where founders should be actually  spending their time.

And then finally, all the way from a two, three person team  to a Google with 1 million employees, you're actually using metrics to operate and drive  teams.

So eventually you have an engineering team, you have a marketing team.

And so  what goal do you set in front of the marketing team? Use analytics for that.

 Okay, so today we're gonna cover a few different things.

So first you always start  with the funnel when you're thinking about analytics.

So that's the sequential series of steps  that your users go through to actually get value, and then pay you as well.

 Then we're going to talk about collecting data for your analytics tools.

Then we're going  to talk about the top three metrics.

So these will include primary and secondary metrics  that work for most products.

And then a product market fit methodology that you can  apply on top of that.

And then finally we'll make recommendations about what tools are  the best in the market right now that help the product market fit journey.

Okay.

 So to start, always start started the funnel.

So we'll make an example funnel for  Netflix, which is a company that we're all super familiar with.

Any B2B product or  B2C product actually has this type of funnel where you acquire a user, you engage  a user over a period of time.

That loop is called retention.

And then finally  you monetize the user.

And then metrics, both primary and secondary are performance indicators on  top of each stage in the funnel.

So on top of acquisition you can ask  yourself, "How many net new users did I get this week versus last week? And  what's my growth rate there?" For engagement, you take a cohort of users.

So from  Sunday to the following Monday you have 16 people sign up.

And then you can  track that cohort of users week over week and see what percentage of them are  still using the product four weeks later, which is a good example of how to  track retention.

And then we talk about monetization, which is, "How much net new revenue  did I make this week versus last week?" Okay.

And then you apply your own  custom business funnel to this.

So if you're Netflix, we're all familiar that users sign  up for Netflix.

Then they play videos in a loop.

Netflix is obviously very sticky,  watching it a lot.

And then finally when the trial runs out, you do subscription  upgraded, and you get access to more content.

Okay.

So how do you collect data  once you have this funnel? So there's analytics APIs out there.

I'm using Segment as  an example.

You basically want to say user one, two, three in this case has  done user sign up event, and they happen to be an organic user, which means  they're not invited by someone else.

Then if you're Netflix, you might say the users  video played, and eventually subscription upgraded.

And so this is how you instrument your tracking  in your mobile app or your or your web app.

Then you think about event  properties.

So imagine you're Netflix and you're holding one of these video played events in  your hands.

And you're wondering questions about it.

So what video is the user actually  playing? How long is the video? How far did the person get inside of the  video? Right? Equivalently if you're holding a subscription upgraded event, you're going to want to  derive monetization as a north star metric.

So if you're a subscription business, you want  to send your monthly recurring revenue.

If you're a transactional business like e-commerce or retail,  you want to send the actual value of the transaction.

Okay.

So then you push  this out into your web app, your mobile app.

Then you start seeing the data  come in.

You look at the debugger.

You see, "Okay, user signup is here.

Everything  looks good." You add your first analytics tool.

We'll use Amplitude as a good example  here.

Amplitude and Mixpanel are pretty awesome analytics tools out in the market right now.

 And then you start seeing data flow inside of one of these analytics tools.

So  this is Amplitude.

You can start seeing user signups growing as soon as you launched  the real mobile or web app.

Okay.

So now that you have analytics set up,  it's them to focus on three different metrics.

The first one is the acquisition metric,  signups per week.

It's really nice if you're a B2B business to cut this by  the invite type.

So you have organic users which are just signing up from coming  to your website, direct signup.

And then some users are inviting other users.

So those  are invite type, right? So when you're thinking about growth, it's really important to think  about the organic user in that case, right? Another example of why event properties are  important.

The way you create this is you go to Amplitude, you say, "Event segmentation  report, user signup.

Next." Here's your graph, right? So it's as easy as that.

Just  website, send data, gets to Amplitude.

And then you can see the amount of organic  users every week.

And then if you're working on the acquisition step as a secondary  metric, you can basically say, "Today 218 users organically signed up in the last week.

 But by the end of the month, we want that to be at 300.

And  we're going to execute projects A, B, and C this month.

And then we're going  to watch this graph every single day on a T.V.

Dashboard in our office or  our apartment, wherever we work.

And then we're going to see if our efforts are  actually driving this," right? So that's an idea of data-driven operation of a team.

You  set a metric and a goal, and then you drive towards that every day.

Okay.

 The second one is retention cohort.

So someone recently asked about retention.

We'll talk about  that right now.

So with retention, you want to think about cohorts of users.

So  you want to say Monday to Sunday, let's say December 10 through December 17th, 16  users signed up.

And then you look at those 16 users as they use your  product on a week zero which is their signup week, week one, week two, week  three and a week four.

And the general idea here is you can convince your  mom or your grandma to use your product once.

But even your mom or your  grandma won't continue to come back and use your product over time every single week,  right? And so if you see users that are addicted, that are coming back week  over week, that's a really good sign of product market fit.

So this business can  see that the December 10th cohort, only 6.25% of those users are still around on  week four.

And that's a pretty low amount, right? So you probably want that to  be somewhere between 20 or 30 at least.

And so you can set a goal  saying, "I'm going to talk to a bunch of these target users and try to  figure out why they're not getting value out of the product.

And then make some  changes as well." Okay.

So what metric do you actually pick? This is taken from  one of Gustav's slides.

Pretty awesome.

You think about what value your company is giving  to your users.

So Airbnb gives you value by letting you stay at different rental  properties around the world, right? And they want you to do that at least one  time a year, otherwise they consider you a churned user.

Equivalently, Facebook gives you value  by letting you look at the newsfeed and connect with your friends.

And they want  you to do that at least daily or monthly once.

And so when you think  about product market fit, you basically have these two different curves that happen.

So we  have that cohort of 16 users that signed up in one week ,and we track  them over time.

And so what ends up happening is for products that don't have  product market fit, they end up tending to go to zero, because people just don't  care about the product, right? And that's definition of product market fit.

For those tools  and the products that do have product market fit, you'll see some kind of natural  plateau.

Don't mind this axis.

It should be somewhere between 20 and 30% at least.

 Okay.

So how do you create this graph? It seems kind of complicated, right? Luckily  both Mixpanel and Amplitude have really awesome reports for this.

So in Amplitude it's a  retention analysis report.

You say, users enter the cohort with the user signup.

And then  they returned with the video played or the subscription upgraded event, that's the value event.

 And then you press Next and out comes this graph.

And then you could look  at four week retention for cohorts, improve the product and watch as new cohorts that  strike the four week mark do better or worse, right? And that shows you whether  your changes week over week or actually improving.

Okay.

Finally revenue.

So this is the  primary metric that you want to be thinking about.

You'll use for a subscription business,  the subscription upgraded event.

You'll do a property sum over new plan, monthly recurring revenue.

 You press Next, and outcomes your weekly net new revenue graph.

And then you could  set monthly goals on top of this to make sure you're growing at the rates  that you to be.

Okay.

Finally, if you have a founding team, it's really good  to basically put all this stuff on a dashboard, and then put this dashboard on  a T.V.

In your office.

It's incredibly, incredibly important.

Basically, this is kind of the  difference between being a data driven team and not a data driven team.

A lot  of founders actually set up their analytics, but then don't look at them ever again  because it can be painful, right? While data driven team will put it on a  T.V.

And talk about projects, talk about what those projects are actually changing the metrics  that they're trying to drive.

And then just completely understand the business every single day,  right? And this kind of company and this kind of founder will actually scale to  build better high performance companies, because the next team of employees they hire will also  be looking at that same T.V.

Dashboard and be driven off those same metrics.

So  really important, get a T.V.

Next what you want to do is have some kind  of social accountability around your metrics.

So if you have your friends, your parents, your  advisors, your investors package up how your business is doing into an email.

This helps  you synthesize what is actually happening.

And then send it out to those advisors and  tell them where the business is struggling, and what your plan is to fix it.

 This allows the advisors to quickly understand the business, and then respond back with a  much more appropriate advice.

Cool.

And now we'll go into the startup stack.

So these  are tools that we recommend that help this kind of tactical process of setting up  these metrics.

So I'm going to talk a little bit about that MVP business workflow  that Michael talked about earlier.

So initially you're building an MVP segment.

Built about seven  different MVPs before we actually found Segment.

And all of those failed.

And eventually we  found one that worked.

And the process of actually building the MVP is incredibly important.

 So once you have that little experiment built, you want to enter private beta.

Which  basically just means getting 10, 20, 30 customers to actually try this product, and then  having very direct lines of communication open with them.

What Segment does nowadays, every new  product we ship, we open Slack channels with each one of our customers.

And we  have the product managers sit in those Slack channels and talk with the customers.

For  the products that don't get product market fit, the customers just stop responding and we're  asking, asking, asking and they're not responding, right? And for the products that do have  product market fit, the customers are immediately being like, "Oh, why don't you have this  feature? This is broken.

I tried inviting my team.

Man, this is not working." So  instead of you kind of pulling out the customer, the customer starts pulling at you.

 That's a good feeling of product market fit.

Okay.

So at some point the private  beta is going well.

You feel like people really care about this.

You understand your  target customer.

Then you want to get a larger market segment to use it.

That's  the launch that we talked about earlier.

Try to get there as quickly as possible.

 And then a launch is just more users that you get to test product market  fit on.

And so if you feel product market fit there, then you can start  scaling the company, right? And you hire sales people and you start doing paid marketing  and things like that.

So different tools will guide you throughout this process.

So as  you're building an MVP and you're about to give it to the first group of  customers, install Google Analytics, install Amplitude.

Google Analytics will tell you who's coming from the  internet to your website.

And then Amplitude will tell you which features are they using,  how engaged are they with that feature set.

Unless you're able to stand over the  shoulders of all of your users a 100% of the time, Analytics is the next  best alternative for that.

We also install live chat on the page.

So either Slack  with your customers.

Or if you can't do that then maybe have a live chat  available.

In the beginning of Segment, customers would ping us day and night.

And that's  where we got the most valuable feedback from them.

So just as many open channels  of communication as possible.

Next, data warehouse.

This is something that we recommend.

It used  to be expensive.

It's no longer expensive today.

Basically if you have a non-technical co-founder  on your team, they'll want to ask questions around the data.

And they'll always ask  the technical co-founder who will have to provide the answers.

So a data warehouse kind  of democratizes the data, not only for the non-technical co-founders, but for everyone else in  the company that you hire after.

Company dashboards, obviously I should probably move that to  the left.

Email and push tools.

So as soon as users sign up, you want  to send them an email.

I'll talk about that in a second.

And then a  help desk.

So at some point you'll have so much support tickets if you start  feeling product market fit.

And if they're all going to your Gmail, one founder will  just get overwhelmed and not be able to answer them.

So you want to have  a shared inbox where multiple founders can respond.

Okay.

Now I'm going to go through  a few different recipes of these different tools that we found really helpful in product  market fit.

So the first one is improving product usability.

Almost every product that's launched  is unusable or highly unusable for the first three months while you have the kinks.

 And we see this with every single product, no matter how much effort we put  into it ahead of time.

As soon as customers hit it, they start using it  in ways that you just don't expect.

And so there's this tool called Fullstory, which  helps you look at sessions of customers as they use your website.

So I'll tell  a quick story on this.

This is a new feature in Personas, which is one  of Segment's products.

And we launched then, the metrics looked horrible.

So customers were coming  in, but they weren't actually completing it.

They weren't using the product and we thought,  "Oh, God.

This likely doesn't have product market fit.

We have to go back to  the drawing board." Then one of the designers in our team had this amazing idea,  "Let's look at the full story." And so we see this user going in about  to start this creation workflow.

They find this button.

They clearly don't understand what the  button does.

They get so frustrated they just exit the page.

And so we saw  this with multiple different customers coming in.

And so we're like, "Okay, we just have  to fix that button." We fixed that button, immediately all the metrics got better.

Right?  And so that's why it's important to have this type of viewing, either stand over  your customers' shoulders, which is great.

What the Stripe co-founders did.

Or get Fullstory, which  is a more scalable way to do that.

Okay.

Call this the 43 Minute Founder  Email.

So when we launched Segment, we would wait about 43 minutes, and we would  email the customer and say, "Hey, I'm Ilya.

Thanks so much for signing up for  Segment.

Your next step here is to add a source to segment.

And if you  have any questions at all, please email me or call me anytime I'm available for  you." Since we launched that email in 2013, we've had hundreds of thousands of responses  to it.

So it's the connection between you and the customer over email, that if  they get confused, they'll respond to it.

What you can use is a tool called  CustomerIO.

It's a behavioral email tool, which will say every time a user signs up,  wait 30 minutes, 40 minutes, 50 minutes, whatever.

And then automatically send them this content.

 And then you could template the first name, the company name and so forth based  off of your analytics data.

So a huge recipe recommend.

And then finally a for  democratizing data access, I would say this is more advanced.

So this is after you're  in your MVP stage.

You're feeling good about product market fit.

You might want to  install a data warehouse like Google BigQuery.

And then Mode Analytics is a BI tool  that works on top of it.

This lets you ask questions on top of the  raw data that you might not be able to do in Amplitude and Mixpanel.

Just  any kind of question you can ask with SQL.

And then even the non-technical co-founders  will eventually pick up SQL and then start asking these questions themselves.

Okay.

One common  failure mode that we see with customers is trying to pick the perfect tool, Mixpanel  or Amplitude, BigQuery or Redshift.

And spending way, way, way too long thinking about that.

 The truth of the matter is, you shouldn't optimize for picking the right tool right  now.

Both Amplitude and Mixpanel will give you exactly the same result at your stage.

 Instead just get through that decision as quickly as possible, but set yourself up for  change in the future.

So this is an example, a diagram that shows a customer  of segments.

They use different tools over a period of about three years.

And so  you can see that they used about eight different tools between 2015 and 2017.

Then  they either hired someone or they decided that their tools are no longer doing the  job.

And they switch from one set of tools to another.

So best in class  tools change every two years.

Just be prepared for change and don't spend too much  time trying to perfect your your choice right now.

Okay.

This is my recommendation of  what tools what are the best for the MVP process.

I'll walk you through them  right now.

So Google Analytics is for understanding what users are coming to your website.

 Amplitude is for future analytics.

Google BigQuery is to democratize data access for the data  warehouse, which is just the database of data.

Mode is the tool you use on  top of that to ask questions on top of BigQuery.

Intercom is like a list  of all of your customers.

They're a really good CRM for early stage folks.

Fullstory  is for improving product usability.

And CustomerIO is for emailing your customers.

Once you get  big enough, you can start using Google ads, Facebook ads to actually do the a  paid acquisition.

Okay.

So I'll just jump straight to the slide.

When we were really  young, we ...

Or when we were in 2011, 2012 we didn't have a lot  of money.

And so we didn't want to use all these different tools.

And so  we used Google Spreadsheet for a CRM.

We then use Asana or Trello, because there  were too expensive.

So we used emails.

And the only things we paid for were  basically GitHub and AWS to host our product, right? So today, happy to say that  the Segment is now free for early stage startups.

So for all you folks, there's  a Bitly link down here though that we'll send out afterwards, and it's in the  deals.

And then also Segment went out and we did a bunch of deals with  these customers, so that if you're early stage you can now get all of these  tools for free.

So enjoy that, and start using them to basically accelerate your product  market fit process.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Yes.

I'll take some questions.
Speaker 2:So what have you seen in terms of user base to make the numbers meaningful?  Is I mean, 10% of a 100 is.

Or 10% of 10 users is one.

 I don't [inaudible 00:18:36].
Ilya:You're asking you about growth rate?
Speaker 2:Yeah.

On any kind of [inaudible 00:18:43].
Ilya:So you're asking you if you're starting with a very small base of users, what  growth rate do you need to be on to make growth meaningful?
Speaker 2:Yeah.

What have you seen that makes the numbers a bit more meaningful? I mean,  should it be like 10,000 users before you-
Ilya:Yeah.

It completely depends on the product, right? So if you're an enterprise B2B company,  then you're closing deals for 10, 15, $20,000 then only a few of those customers  can make ...

Can give you enough capital to hire more people to do more  marketing, entire larger sales team.

If you are selling shirts and pants, then you probably  need higher volumes.

So it totally depends on the kind of company you're building,
Speaker 3:I have a question about you're going through all the retention and such.

And it  shows the charts have a by week, you're tracking your retention.

But my product is  more like an Airbnb product.

It's more like an annual, maybe biannual, maybe even with  our product we will change the trends.
Ilya:Yeah.
Speaker 3:But in history it's done biannual.
Ilya:Yup.

So the question is, what kind of retention period do you want to look  at if you're renting properties like an Airbnb? So that's a really good question.

Really  those kinds of periods depend on the kind of company you're building.

So I'm giving  one presentation, but there's hundreds of different companies that need to apply the information slightly  differently.

So if you're Airbnb, you probably would expect people to at least come back  to your app.

How often do people travel? Right? They travel once a month, once  a quarter, right? And so that's the period that you want to make sure that  they come back-
Speaker 3:You just check maybe quarterly and it's-
Ilya:Yeah.

So it's not like week is correct for everyone.

But it's correct for the  majority of companies.

Yeah.
Speaker 3:Right.

So just keep a pulse, right? That's [inaudible 00:20:28]-
Ilya:Exactly.
Speaker 3:Yeah.
Ilya:Keep a pulse.

Yep.

Wes? Awesome.

All right.
