# Michael Seibel - How to Plan an MVP

Michael Seibel:My name is Michael, I work here at Y Combinator.

I help run the accelerator,  before that I did two YC startups, one in 2007 and one in 2012.

And  today I'm going to talk to you about Minimum Viable Products, so MVP.

We always  yell at founders to not use jargon, yet we have this whole set of stupid  startup jargon, and MVP is one of them.

When you think about an MVP, you  just think about something ridiculously simple, this is the first thing you can give to  the very first set of users you want to target, in order to see if  you can deliver any value at all to them.

That's all it is, it's extremely  simple.

I know you guys had a talk last week about how to come up  with ideas, how to come up with problems you want to solve.

What I will  tell you is, that it is helpful to talk to some users before you decide  to build your MVP.

This doesn't mean you have to go into a three year  kind of research situation, or you have to work in industry for 10 years, but  some conversations are helpful.

It's even more helpful if you're your own user, so you  can tell whether your product's working for you.

I always get this strange question of  how do I get my first users, which always kind of confuses me, because theoretically  you decide to solve a problem that you know someone has, so the way you  get your first user is you talk to that person that you know has the  problem.

And if it's you, it's even easier.

So if you are building a product  for a mysterious set of users that you have no idea who they are, question  that slightly, very slightly.

Okay.

So, the goal of a pre-launch startup is extremely simple.

 Step one, launch quickly.

This is something that's been part of the YC ethos from  the very beginning, and it's been great advice for 10 years, and it continues to  be great advice.

If you can walk away from one thing from this presentation, it's  launch something bad quickly, that's it.

Literally, the rest of what I'm going to say  is basically going to be re-summarized versions of that same thing.

The second thing that  obviously a startup needs to do, is get some initial customers.

Get anyone using your  product.

You don't have to have a vision of how you get everyone using it,  but just anyone interacting and seeing if they get value out of the product.

You'd  be surprised at how many founders journeys end before a single user has actually interacted  with a product they've created.

It's very, very common, so please get past this step,  it's extremely important.

The next one is, talk to your users, any of them after  you've launched this MVP, and get feedback.

This is one that's also a extremely common  mistake, because most founders in their heads have an idea of what they want to  build.

And so they kind of have this weird feeling that, if I haven't built  the full thing yet, getting feedback on the shitty initial thing is kind of useless.

 Of course it's not going to work, it's not the full thing.

The full thing  is going to take three years, $10 million, a whole team, so feedback on the  little thing is useless.

The reality is that, in some ways the full thing is  this really awesome idea in your head that you should keep in your head, but  it should be very, very flexible, because it might turn out the full thing that  you want to build, isn't what your customers want at all.

So I have this  saying, hold the problem you're solving tightly, hold the customer tightly, hold the solution you're  building loosely.

Last and most important, iterate, and I'd like to kind of distinguish between  iterating and pivoting.

A lot of founders, once they've figured out how to build something,  fall in love with it.

And so if it doesn't work for a certain set  of users, they start thinking, "Well, I wonder what other problems this thing can solve?  Well, the screwdriver is not actually good at screwing in anything, but I wonder what  other problems it could solve." And then they go, "Maybe you can use it to  cook, maybe you can use it to clean." And it's like, no, the problem was,  I need to screw something in, the user was a mechanic, and if your screwdriver  doesn't help the mechanic solve their problem, keep the mechanic, keep the problem, I need  to screw something in, fix the fucking screwdriver.

That's the thing that's broken, right? The  broken thing is not the mechanic, and it's not the fact that they need to  screw something in.

So iterate, continue improving on your solution until it actually solves the  problem.

In most cases, most people should be building a very lean MVP.

So by  that we mean, you should be able to build it fast in weeks, not months.

 This can either involve software, or honestly, we see startups just start with a landing  page and a spreadsheet, but most startups can start very, very fast.

The second extremely  limited functionality, you need to condense down what your user needs...

What your initial user  needs to a very simple set of things.

A lot of times founders want to  address all of their users problems, and all of their potential users, when in reality  they should just focus on a small set of initial users and their highest order  problems, and then ignore the rest until later.

You should have a vision of everyone,  you should have an MVP very small.

All this is, is a base to iterate  from, that's it.

It's just a starting point, it doesn't...

It's not special in any  way, you just have to start.

And so, please make sure you don't feel like  your MVP is too special.

Okay.

Here is a classic example.

This is one of  Airbnb's first landing pages in 2008, I believe.

One of the things that you might  be interested in about in Airbnb's first product, is that there were no payments.

When  you found a place to stay on Airbnb, you had to exchange money with the  host in person.

Needless to say, that was a pretty fucking big problem, but they  started without payments.

No map view.

You know how when you search Airbnb you can  see where the house is in the city? You don't have that sorry.

And, the  person writing all the code made, was working part-time.

Okay? So everyone tells these kind  of magical stories about how everything was perfect from the beginning, Airbnb, not perfect from  the beginning.

The next one, Twitch.

This was what Twitch looked like day one, not  very familiar.

Well, maybe a little familiar.

There's some video there, and there's some chat  there, other than that, nothing else.

Twitch launched as Justin.tv, which was an online reality  TV show.

There was only one channel, Justin, you had to follow his life.

If  you didn't like his life, you had to leave the website.

That's all there was.

 The video was extremely low resolution.

It was funny, a founder asked me back in  the day like, "Oh, wasn't it weird you guys had video in your apartment? Weren't  there all these secret documents and things that people would be able to see?" And  I was like, "You could barely recognize our faces, let alone documents that we had."  And most importantly, there were no video games.

No video games, except if we decided  to play video games in our apartment.

That was the only time video games appeared.

 And so, I'm going to say you can do that quickly.

When you think about  Twitch, it's much more complex now.

Last, Stripe, which wasn't Stripe, it was called /dev/payments,  because why not.

Let's make a name that's really easy to remember.

This was Stripe  day one, no bank deals.

I won't tell you exactly how they processed payments, but  it was in a very startupy way.

Almost no features.

And even cooler, if you  wanted to use Stripe, the Stripe founders would come to your office and integrate it  for you.

How nice is that? Half because they were just desperate to get anyone  to use it, and half because it was a great way to find bugs before  the users found bugs, integrate it yourself.

So these are just three examples of extremely  simple, extremely fast to build MVPs.

All of these are a billion dollar companies, and  they all started with something that most people would say, is pretty shitty.

In very  few cases you have to build a heavy MVP.

I just invented that term, heavy  MVP, when I made this presentation two days ago, so maybe it becomes a thing.

 If you're in an industry with significant regulation, like insurance, or banking, sometimes drones, although  sometimes not, it's hard to launch.

It's harder to launch.

You have to pass through  a bunch of regulatory bodies first.

I you're doing hard tech, if you're building rockets,  it is hard to build a rocket in a couple of weeks.

Biotech, it is  hard to invent a cancer drug in a couple of weeks.

Moonshots, well fill in  all the other blanks, it's hard to bore tunnels in the earth and have extremely  fast vehicles that replace cars in a couple of weeks.

So, if you're in that  situation, please remember that your MVP can start with a simple, simple website that explains  what you do.

It's helpful when you talk to people and you interact with people,  that they can refer back to something.

So that can be your start, and you  can build that simple website in days, not weeks.

So in many ways maybe your  heavy MVPs are faster than your lean MVPs in some weird strange way.

Now, I  want to talk about launching for a second, because a lot of founders have this  misconception about launching.

They see big companies launch stuff, and they assume that's what startups  do.

In fact, they see companies they kind of think about like startups.

Facebook is  not really a startup anymore, but they see them getting a lot of press, and  getting a lot of buzz, and yada, yada, yada, and they have in their head  that, that's what a successful company looks like when they launch.

Well, let me ask  you this question, how many here remember the day that Google launched? No.

How about  Facebook? Okay.

How about Twitter? No.

Great.

So it turns out, that launches aren't that  special at all, okay? So if you have this magical idea of your magical launch  you want to do, throw it away, it's not that special.

The number one thing  that's really important, is to get some customers.

So to make people feel better, let's  use different terms.

How about launch, is when you get any customers? And how about  press launch, press launch, really impressive, is when people write about things and it's all  exciting, and you get all this buzz? Let's push the press launch off, and let's  push the, get any customers launch really, really soon.

That's our goal here.

It's a  lot harder to learn from your customers when they don't have a product they can  play with.

You can talk to your customer all day, but you have no idea  whether the thing you want to build can solve their problem.

If you put the  thing in front of them, and it doesn't solve their problem, you know right away.

 And so, all the research in the world is good, but until you can put  something in front of people, you have no frigging idea whether it's going to work.

 So spending all that time on a pitch deck, is not as valuable as spending  your time building anything that you can give to a customer.

Finally, some hacks for  building an MVP extremely quickly.

First, time box your spec.

So your spec is a  list of stuff you need to build before you launch, time box it.

Say, "Okay,  what happens if I want to launch in three weeks? Okay, well, the only things  that can be on my spec, are things I can build in three weeks." That  makes your life a lot simpler, it allows you to remove all the features you  can't build in three weeks.

Second, write your spec.

This seems really straight forward, but  most people fuck this one up.

It's really easy to change what you're working on  before you ever launch it, because you never write it down.

You start working on  something, you talk to a user, they say, "Oh, I would never use that." Or,  God forbid, you talk to a investor and they say, "Oh, that could never be  a company," because investors know everything, and so you decide to change what you're working  on.

And because you never wrote it down, you don't even really realize you're changing  it.

And so, your three week plan turns into a three month plan.

If you  write shit down, at least you can be honest with yourself that you're changing your  spec all the time.

The next one is, cut your spec.

A week into your  kind of three week sprint, you probably realize that you added too many things to  your spec, and you're not going to make your deadline, that's okay, just cut the  stuff that clearly isn't important.

And if there's no non-important things, start cutting important things.

 Most of the goal here, is just to get anything out in the world.

Once  you get anything out in the world, the momentum to keep anything going, is extremely  strong.

Once you have anything...

If you don't have anything out in the world, it's  very easy to just delay, delay, delay.

And then last, don't fall in love with  your MVP.

So many people fall in love with the vision in their head, and  none of the products I showed you before was the initial vision what it ended  up being.

So please don't fall in love with your MVP, it's just step one  in a journey.

You wouldn't fall in love with a paper you wrote in the  first grade, and that's the level of impact often your MVP has.

Okay, that's the  talk, I have a little bit of time for questions.

Any questions? Perfect, no questions.
Speaker 2:I'm finding talking to users, I have several sub-type segments, and of course each one  wants a particular thing, and another one wants a particular thing.

So the numbers are  so small that they kind of even out, so how...

What-
Michael:Great question.

So you talk to users and they have all these things that you  want to build, and there isn't a lot of overlap between them? So I will  give you kind of the meta answer, never ask users for features.

Never ask users  to tell you what they want.

It's not the users job to come up with  features, that's your job.

The users job is to give you problems.

And so, I  would assume that if you're talking to these users, there's some continuity in the problems  that they have.

They probably have no idea how to solve the problem, and so  they're probably giving you a long list of potential features they think can solve the  problem, as opposed to spending a lot of time just talking about what their problem  is, how often do they experience it, how intense is it, are they willing to  pay for a solution, do they know other people who have the problem.

So those  are the questions that we're trying to get out of someone, and if you see  someone sneaking into a feature zone, like, "Oh, you know, I love Microsoft Word, but  I wish that someone could build something that lets me do, blah, blah, blah, blah,"  right, then you've got to scoot it back down to, "Oh, well why do you  want to do blah, blah, blah, blah? What problem do you have? How often do  you encounter that problem," and get it back to problem.

That's how you avoid feature  death.

It's extremely common.

Yeah?
Speaker 3:I find myself walking that very thin line between staying focused on my MVP, but  changing it up because I'm finding one thing better.

So I started off on my  MVP, talking to all my potential users, and I'm, "No, no, no, let me add  this, let me add this, we've got to add this." So do I take my  ADT medication and just keep going with what I started with, or when do you  stop and say, "Okay, this warrants a change?"
Michael:Oh, yes, sorry.

So the question is, I'm stuck in this cycle where I keep  on changing my MVP and I don't launch.

I see a lot of people who  are stuck in that cycle, and there are a lot of startup problems where the  answer is stop doing what you're doing.

Just stop it.

You don't have to keep  on changing your MVP.

One of the reasons why perhaps you're changing your MVP, is  because you think it's special.

If you didn't think it was special, you would stop  changing it, you'd stop editing it.
Speaker 3:I don't understand sir, explain that again.
Michael:If you think your MVP is special, you think it has to be perfect.

If  you think it has to be perfect, you spend a lot of time messing with  it.

If you assume that it has to be really shitty, right...

If you think,  "Okay, I'm literally trying to find a shirt in my closet that I can paint  with and then destroy," you don't spend a lot of time tailoring that shirt, right?  So if you think your MVPs less special, you'll spend less time tinkering with it.

 Yeah.
Speaker 4:Say you launch your MVP and you're looking for feedback, what are the key things  you want to ask your [inaudible]?
Michael:This is a really simple question.

What's the key thing you want to learn when  you want to get feedback on your MVP? Does it solve the problem I wanted  to solve? That's it.

You can find 80 different ways of answering that question, but  if you clearly understand the problem you're trying to solve, then it's a pretty clear...

 Often times you don't have to ask.

If it's in front of the user, you  can see whether they're doing the thing you want them to do, or whether they're  not.

Often times you can see it in the numbers.

If it's a problem you  have every day and you introduce the user to it, did they come back the  next day? I've never really seen a product that solves a problem people have every  day, that actually solves the problem where a user just stops using it, because whatever.

 So there are lots of weird nuances here that are completely relevant.

Does the user  do the thing, solve the problem that you want them to solve? Other questions, in  the back there.
Speaker 5:How long should an MVP last? I mean, you start growing and then what the  next steps?
Michael:Do you know what's fun about startups? I don't like thinking about timelines, and I  don't like thinking about roadmaps.

For people who are in the pre-MVP stage, who knows,  launch something, figure it out.

You decided to do a startup, and one of the  characteristics of startups is that, how to get from A to Z is not going  to be clear.

And so, if you're too focused on, "Oh, well I understand getting  an MVP is step B, but I'm really focused on step C, D and E,"  I would tell you, like, "Hey, how about solving the problem right in front of  you first." Yeah?
Speaker 6:So how do you balance, for example, improving the MVP to grow the retention of  customers, versus betting on efforts to grow acquisition and lead generation in terms of problems?
Michael:Post MVP, should you work on growth or should you work on retention? I love  this question, it's the funnest question in the world, because it allows me to give  a ridiculously canned answer.

Both.

Yeah.

Here's what happens, a lot of sort of founders  kind of fundamentally understand their startup is a Multi Variable Problem, but Multi Variable Problems  are hard, so they try to reduce it to a single variable.

So they ask  the secret advisor, "Oh, what's more important, growth or retention?" What's more important, taking a  shower or going to the bathroom and doing a number two? I'd like you to  do both.

Sorry, both are important.

As a founder, you're going to have to juggle  multiple things.

Yeah?
Speaker 7:Okay.

Let' me share a story with a startup that didn't talk to the end  users, with those end users won't talk about the problem, how do you overcome that,  do you know?
Michael:Let's be clear, the question is, how do you talk to your users if they  have a problem they don't want to talk about? Why don't you tell me what  that is.

What's the problem?
Speaker 7:Type Two Diabetes.
Michael:Type Two Diabetes.

I am perfectly confident that you can find 10 people who want  to talk about their Type Two Diabetes.

And I question you starting a startup to  help Type Two Diabetes people if you don't know anyone who's got Type Two Diabetes  who's willing to talk to you.

So I think that's one of those false set  ups, I reject the premise of the question.

All right, next question, go ahead.
Speaker 8:How many people would be enough to sign up, or how many active users would  be good to have in the MVP before presenting to investors for example, based on  which [inaudible] market size, or-
Michael:That's a great question.

If I were to summarize it, I would say how far  along are you before you talk to investors.

I'm also going plunt on that answer.

 I think there's going to be a whole lecture on when you should talk to  investors, and so I will say, wait for that lecture.

Whoever gives it, will do  a great job at answering that question.
Speaker 8:Okay, thank you.
Speaker 9:My question is, what type of numbers or attraction should you look for before your
Michael:I'll rephrase that question, how do you know when you have product market fit? Okay.

 The classic answer, which is actually correct and founders really hate, is that, if you're  asking, you don't have product market fit.

What tends to happen when you have product  market fit is that, people start using your product so much, you transition from doing  anything other than just keeping it online.

That's what product market fit tends to look  like.

So you stop thinking about new features, you stop thinking about improving your conversion  through funnels, you stop thinking about how to get better distribution, and you are literally  just like, "Holy shit, I don't know how I'm going to serve the people who  are coming to my product tomorrow.

I'm at a loss.

And next week, I'm at  a loss.

And I'm pretty sure that we're going die, because we have too many  users." And what's funny is, when I put it that way, it's not hard to  know whether you're there or not.

And there's such a horrible reality is that, almost  no-one gets product market fit.

Almost no-one.

Almost no-one.

A lot of people like to  throw around the terms, and a lot of people like to redefine it as, someone's  using my product.

That's not the term.

The term for someone's using your product is,  you have a user.

That's good, but it's not product market fit.

In the back.
Speaker 10:The more users we talk to, the definition of the problem keeps on getting bigger,  and bigger, and bigger.

So when thinking of MVPs where do we [inaudible]? We started  working with just one user, and we tried to write a small experiment with them,  but while doing that we learned more attributes of the problem itself.
Michael:So what happens if you learn more about the problem and the problem expands as  you start interacting with users? That's totally fine, that's expected in fact.

What I would  say though is that, where founders usually make the mistake, is they think they have  to solve the problem for all users.

And so, most importantly, if you have one  user with a set of problems, a nice thing to do would be to try  to figure out is there anyone else like them.

And one fun thing you could  do, is just ask them, "Hey, do you know anyone else whose got your exact  same problem?" Any problem, when you kind of scoop back and you think about the  vision of any founder, it actually encompasses a whole sub-set of problems.

And I think  the thing that gets people really screwed up with their MVP, is that they have  a vision that's big and they're not willing to have an MVP that's small.

They  feel as though if they're not addressing all of the potential users up front, then  they're somehow failing.

And there are a lot of things that a startup has to  do, or a founder has to do, where they're keeping two things in mind at  the same time, right? Vision big, MVP small, right? Grow and retain.

One thing we  talk about at YC a lot, your investor pitch and your customer pitch, very different.

 And founders always want to smoosh these things together, or kill one, because it's so  much easier to think of it as a single problem...

A single thing in your  head versus two opposing things in your head.

How could it be true that we  want to do payments for everyone, and have a little API that's so hard to  use that we have to install it for people, right? And it's like both things  are true, and you have to be comfortable with that.

All right, one more.

Yeah?
Speaker 11:In the pharmaceutical space, would my users be other scientists or would they actually be  patients?
Michael:In the pharmaceutical space, who are your users? I think that, that's a question for  you.

You are starting the company, you know what you're building, you know the problem  you're solving, you know who has the problem, I don't know any of those things.

 All right.

It was great talking to all of you, thank you very much.
