
# Kat Manalac - How to Launch (Again and Again)

Kim [Mihalik 00:00:01].

I'm a partner at Y Combinator and one of the things  I help founders do a lot is prepared a launch.

That is what I'm going  to talk to you about today.

So I want to change the way you think  about launching.

So most people think about launching as something that you get one shot  at.

So for example, I just talked to a team that's been preparing to launch  for six months.

They were lovingly trying to get every pixel perfect on their product  before they shared it with everyone.

Now, they are stressing over every line on their  landing page, and they're trying to line up everything right with timing.

But if you're  like most startups, you will launch something, no one will care.

If it took you  six months to get there, your startup is probably going to be dead before you  get another chance to launch.

So in the same sort of spirit at always be  shipping, I want you to think about launching as something you can continually do.

I  want to destroy the idea that launching is just this one moment in time.

Because  assuming you do well and assuming you ship new products and new features, you are  never going to be not launching.

So let's talk about all the ways that you  can launch.

Here are different opportunities to launch that we're going to go through today.

 I'll go through each of these except press launches.

We have done a previous startups  lecture on press launches, and I'll share a link to that and some resources after  this.

But we'll go over a most of these.

And most of these things are  things that you should be doing while you're in Startup School.

So let's talk about,  first, why you want to continuously launch.

So before you even have a fully-functioning product,  you get a chance to practice your pitch and you can refine it.

You can  A/B Test it and see how people actually respond to the idea.

Then, once you  have an MVP or a very early version of your product, launching through different channels  will give you an opportunity to see how people will respond to that early version  of the product.

You know, and then launching to different channels will help you determine  whether you're even talking to the right users.

Because, you might launch on one channel  and get no response, you'll launch on another channel and you'll get a huge response.

 So that will help you identify whether you're identifying the right user for what you're  building.

So let's talk about some of the types of launches that you can do  while you're in Startup School, and I'm excited to hear that 1,000 of you have  launched so far since the start of Startup School.

That's incredible.

So I clicked on  10 random Startup School companies from founders who posted on the forum and only about  half had landing pages.

So this is what I call the silent launch.

You do  not need anything fancy for this.

You know, all you need is a domain name,  your company name, a short description, a contact, and a call to action.

So for  example, this is a random Startup School company that I found from a founder who  posted on the forum.

Their company is [Zinc 00:02:59].

They have a domain name, they  have their company name, they have their short one-line pitch, a short description, and they're  called to action, which is, "Get in touch." The call to action can be something  like, "Subscribe to our newsletter." Or, "Subscribe to hear more when we launch.".

Product Hunt,  for example, has an actual product for pre-launch companies called Ship.

It's a way to  collect potential interest from potential users.

So, for example, this is something called Designer School,  and it has a quick intro from the founders, a short description of what the  company does, and the call to action, which is, "Subscribe." So you can go on  Product Hunt and set up one of these pages.

But, of course, you can also  build your own landing page incredibly quickly and easily.

This should be something that if  you don't have one yet, that you do this weekend.

So the next thing is  the friends and family launch.

So if you're at idea stage, you can test out  your short pitch on family and friends and see how they respond.

Once you have  an MVP, do a friends and family launch as quickly as possible.

So in its  earliest days, Reddit was shared just among the founders of their batch at YC.

You  know, there were only eight companies.

It was a really small community.

I used the  Wayback Machine to actually see what Reddit looked like in its earliest days.

It hasn't  changed that much.

But if you look closely, this is actually before they called upvotes,  upvotes.

They were calling it boosts.

This is like 2005, I think July.

So that's  how they got their very first users, just sharing it among their community of founders.

 So what I recommend you do is share the product with your friends and family,  watch them use it.

You know, sit down next to them and ask for feedback.

 But don't stay in this phase for too long because your friends and family might  not be the exact right, ideal user for your product or what you're building.

So  sometimes their feedback isn't quite as helpful as a real user's is.

So for example,  if Alexis and Steve had shared this with their parents, their parents might've been like,  "What the hell is this?" So get out of that family and friends circuit as  fast as you can.

So the next move would be to launch to strangers.

So  one of my favorite examples of a YC company launching to strangers is the company  Lugg.

So Lugg is an app that lets you call movers and delivery people on  demand.

So even before Lugg had built a fully-functioning app or product, they would rent  a truck and they would go drive to Ikea and they would sit outside of  Ikea.

So they would watch shoppers, and they'd look for people who were having a  particularly difficult time tying stuff to the top of their cars.

They'd run up to  those customers, and they'd say, "Hey.

Instead of trying to tie this mattress on top  of your car, wouldn't it be cool if you could just push a button and  someone with a truck would come and help do this for you?" You know, the  customers would be like sweating, and they'd be like, "Yes, that's exactly what I need  at this moment.".

You know, they'd download the app, they'd click the Lugg button, and  then the founder would run back to the parking lot, drive up in his truck,  and then the customer would be like, "Oh my God, it's you." And they were  like, "Yeah." So it was a real hustle at the beginning.

Like, none of this  was working on the back end, but it really confirmed for them that this was  a hair on fire problem for their users and customers.

So they decided, "It makes  sense for us to really build this out and spend time on this product.".

So  launching to strangers will help do that for you.

It will help show you whether  people are actually willing to download and pay for what it is you're building.

Let's  talk about online communities.

This is actually one of my favorite ways to launch.

I  think you should plan a launch for every single community that you are part of.

 So when a company goes through Y Combinator, they have the option of launching on  Bookface before they launch publicly.

So Bookface is our internal platform at YC.

It's like  Facebook meets LinkedIn meets Quora.

There are currently over 4,000 other founders on Bookface.

So  it's a fairly low-risk way to launch because it's not totally public, but there is  enough of an audience there to get some feedback.

You're launching in front of fairly  friendly people who you know want to see you succeed.

So they launched there.

What  I think you guys are particularly lucky because you have Startup School and you have  the Startup School forum, which about 40,000 founders are on.

So if you have an  early version of your product, there is literally no reason that you shouldn't be launching  to the Startup School community in the next few weeks.

I also think that founders  and other people making and building stuff, they give the best early-product feedback.

So you  have thousands of other founders at your disposal.

So I think that this kind of  gives you a leg up here.

Here's a sort of extreme example of a company  that successfully launched in online communities.

So Magic is an on-demand personal assistant.

When they  started in Y Combinator in 2015, they were actually building a blood pressure monitoring app.

 So they were trying to get this blood pressure monitoring app to grow, and it  wasn't growing as quickly as they were hoping so they decided, "You know, let's test  out another idea that we had." So they sent a link around to their friends  and family and it just looked like this.

It basically said, "Text phone number and  we'll make anything happen like magic." Like, it was very, very basic.

One of their  friends thought it was so cool that they shared it on Reddit and Hacker News.

 And basically overnight, like over the course of a weekend, 40,000 people signed up to  use Magic.

So of course, they were like, "Oh my God, this is crazy." Let's  be honest, this is an extreme case and almost no one who launches on Reddit  and Hacker News is going to get 40,000 users overnight.

But my point is it's  definitely worth putting yourself out there because you might be one of those extreme cases,  but at the very least, you'll get some early users and you'll get some great  feedback.

So many of the startups that go through YC launch on Hacker News and  Product Hunt.

We, over time, have looked at the stats of how well these launches  convert, so a TechCrunch launch versus a Product Hunt launch versus a Hacker News launch.

 In terms of converting to users, they're starting to even out in terms of their  impact and a conversion, whether it's your signups or converting to customers.

So if you're  launching in these communities and aren't active members of these communities yet, my suggestion is  that you spend a little bit of time looking at the communities, you understand the  rules, especially if you're posting to subreddits.

They all sort of have their own moderators,  have their own rules.

Understand the best way to talk to these communities.

If it's  a community that's known for being helpful, ask for advice, ask for feedback.

If you're  not part of these communities, I'd reach out to someone who is and ask them  for advice, ask them for the best way to launch because there are going to  be tips for every community.

You know, for example, one company in this batch was  building something that he wanted to get more women's perspectives on.

They're two male founders.

 One of the users of Elpha, which is a community for women in tech said,  "Hey, I'll post that to Elpha for you, and I'll tell you what kind of  feedback they got." So I recommend like connecting with someone in the community and asking  them for help if you're not part of the community yourself.

The biggest piece of  advice I have for launching on online communities is write like you talk.

Do not  talk like a marketing robot.

People hate that.

So don't use marketing language or deep  jargon.

Talk like a human when you're addressing the community.

So all you need when  you introduce yourself in these posts, introduce yourself, talk about what you're building, talk briefly  about why you're doing it, or how you came across the problem.

People on Hacker  News, for example, are super intellectually curious.

So are there any interesting insights that you've  learned from talking to potential users or your users? Is there anything surprising or delightful  that you could share with the community? Because people love that, and they also want  to ask you questions but sometimes don't know exactly how or which questions they should  ask you.

So tee it up for them.

Say, "Hey, I'm an expert in X,  Y, and Z, and I'm happy to answer questions on these topics." Otherwise, you risk  people going down all sorts of weird rabbit holes.

Just make sure that you sort  of are sharing this community, asking them for advice.

Try to cut down as much  of the jargon and marketing as possible out of these pitches.

Then, request for access  launch.

The Magic story that I shared with you actually reminded me of this other  type of launch you can do.

So when Magic launched, overnight they got 40,000 people  signing up.

Of course, they couldn't serve 40,000 users immediately, so they launched a wait  list.

They also gave people ways to skip the line.

So, for example, if you  tweeted about Magic, you'd get to skip a few spots in line.

So you can  build these viral elements into your launches that will help get people to spread the  word for you.

One of my current favorite examples of this request for access launch  is Superhuman.

So Superhuman is building a better email experience.

So you can go to  their site here and request access, and you can also ask a current user to  refer you and then that'll help you skip the line.

So in the signature of  all emails that are sent by Superhuman users is a little tag that says, "Sent  by Superhuman." So I'm a Superhuman user, and I get a ton of emails.

I'll  send a ton of my emails out to people, and I get a ton of  emails asking me for referrals.

You know, people I email say, "Hey, how did you  like Superhuman? Would you mind referring me to the product?" So if you have a  product that you can build this sort of viral element into, I highly recommend it.

 So we don't have a huge amount of time because obviously social media and launching  to bloggers is this huge, and long, and well-covered topic.

But I wanted to skim  them briefly and give you an example of a company that we worked with that  did it very well.

As most of you know, launching to popular blogs that cover  your industry or trade can be incredibly powerful.

So Joy is a free wedding website  builder, and they were one of the fastest-growing companies in their batch.

A lot of  their early growth, like an alarming amount of their really early growth, was due to  being placed on a number of lists like this.

They essentially googled...

They looked at  SEO, and they googled, best wedding website builders, and figured out who was coming up  on the first couple pages of results on Google.

They reached out to all those  bloggers and they said, "Hey, we have this new product.

We think your community would  love it.

Would you be willing to add us to this list?" You know, they  said that they reached out and basically did a drip campaign to over 50 bloggers  and only got responses from four.

But those four responses made a huge impact for  their early growth.

So one note that I want you to keep in mind is  that some blogger and influencer opportunities are pay-to-play.

Joy did not pay early on, and  I do not want you paying early on either.

If folks are asking you to  pay, please find other or creative routes to get around this because as startups, as  early-stage startups, you don't have the money to do it.

It is definitely possible to  go this route without paying a ton of money, so figure out ways around the  expensive sort of sponsorship dollars.

If you're a hardware or physical product, of course, you  can do a preorder campaign.

So preparing for preorder launch could honestly be a whole  presentation of its own.

But take a look at some successful campaigns and get a  sense for how they built out their launch strategy.

So, for example, Sheertex was a  company in YC that was making unbreakable sheer pantyhose.

The founder, Katherine, made a great,  really compelling video that she pitched to press.

She launched on Hacker News, where...

You  know, Hacker News, it's a very male audience.

So we were curious how they would  respond to something like sheer unbreakable pantyhose.

But they loved it.

They thought it was  very clever.

They thought that the technical piece behind it was really interesting.

You know,  so I would recommend any company try to launch and see how different communities respond.

 She launched on Product Hunt.

She asked her friends, and family, and batchmates, and investors  to help spread the word.

She had an incredibly successful campaign.

So, of course, there's  a new feature or new product line launches.

So two very different companies that do  this incredibly well are Stripe and Glossier.

So both companies are incredibly smart about how  they launch new products.

So Stripe has always been great from the very beginning.

They've  been really great at engaging the community.

So every time they launch a product...

So,  for example, when they launched Stripe Atlas, they launched it on Hacker News and the  founders were in the thread talking to all potential users, and talking about the product,  and why they were launching it, the problems that they felt it was solving.

They  blogged about it.

They spread the word on social media.

They pitched press.

And this  is something that they do over and over again.

If you look at Stripe's blog,  if you look at Hacker News, you can kind of see the history since the  beginning.

They've been very great at sort of activating the community.

Glossier, which is a  beauty brand, is incredible at launching new product.

The way they think about it is  actually very scientific.

They release products on a very specific cadence at specific intervals.

For  every product, they essentially hit every single launch button again and again, so community, social  media, press, advertising.

So each time this new product launches, which is basically like every  six to eight weeks, they have the cycle going.

So there's a constant drum beat  about Glossier out in the world.

One last note before we jump into questions is  while you're in Startup School, you should start to build your own communities.

You can  do this even really pre-product.

So there was one YC founder, Gadi Evron, who was  founder of Symmetria, and he had a really particularly successful TechCrunch launch.

A TechCrunch launch  is a story about what they were doing launched in TechCrunch.

I had noticed that  they had a ton of shares, a ton of engagement.

So I asked them to  share, "How did you set this up? What did you do to share and spread  the word about your launch?" He said that over the years, even before launching the  product, he started to build his own email list.

So every person he met that  he discussed his startup with, even very loosely, he would add them an email list.

 They would get sort of email updates about what he was working on, at semi-regular  intervals.

So when the TechCrunch article came out, he said he sent that email to  the list full of all the people that he ever talked to, other startup founders,  investors, friends, family, and asked for their help in spreading the news.

He said, "The  response was significant." He even saw VCs who hadn't invested in them sharing the story  from their own personal Twitter accounts.

He said, "You know, you would be really surprised  by who comes out of the woodwork to help when you ask for it." So  I would recommend, while you're in Startup School, you have the opportunity to talk to  so many people about what you're building and ask them, "Hey, can I add you  to my update list?" And over time, you'll get that into the hundreds, maybe even  thousands.

So I would definitely recommend that you start doing that now.

So to sum  up, I want you to stop thinking about launching as this one moment in time.

 I don't want you to spend all of Startup School getting ready for this one  big day.

This one big launch day that you're trying to line up all these  things for.

This is something that is a continuous process that you can do over  the course of the next couple months and into the life cycle of your company.

 If you didn't catch them the first time, these are all the opportunities that we  went over.

I'm Kat, so if you ever have any questions...

Demo day's coming up,  so I might be slightly slower than usual to respond.

But you can always reach  out to kat@ycombinator.

I'm also on Twitter.

We have 10 minutes for questions, so does  anyone have any questions about launches? Yes.

The red shirt.
Speaker 2:Briefly tell us about launch parties.

I feel like they've been kind of...

You know,  people don't think they're as great as they used to be.

I was curious about  these being successful events.
Kat Manalac:So the question is, "What do you think about launch parties?" Oh, gosh.

I mean,  as an early-stage startup, I wouldn't necessarily recommend you spend a ton of money, right?  Like, back in the day, I don't know...

I worked at WIRED Magazine right out  of school, and people were spending like tens of thousands of dollars on these elaborate  launch parties and it's bananas.

I would not recommend anyone do that.

But at the  same time, if you want to have something small, especially if you have a community  and you want to celebrate, sure, why not? But I would not spend a ton  of money on launch parties.

I wouldn't do it, but I'm not going to stop  you if you want to do something smart and fun.

Yes, in the front.
Speaker 3:If you have a problem to solve and need different ideas to solve it, how  do you launch these different ideas?
Kat Manalac:So the question is, "If you have different ideas and you're trying to test out  different ideas or different approaches to solving a problem, how do you recommend launching it?"  You know, I think you could definitely...

Say you have two different ideas and you're  trying to kind of...

What industry, just really quick?
Speaker 3:B2B.
Kat Manalac:Okay.

So I would say this is a case of like where it's really important  to talk to your users really quickly.

So getting in front of potential customers and  you're launching to not just friends and family, but potential customers and asking them like  what it is they want.

What approach do they think would help them best? And  getting those...

Talking to customers, getting in front of those users as quickly as possible  will help kind of guide which direction to go in.

But that is a case  where I definitely think it's better to launch sooner, even just pitching the idea to  your customers.
Speaker 4:Yes.

First of all, thank you very much for the information.

It’s very, very helpful,  especially...

In my company, we started a marketing campaign two weeks ago, and we’re getting  really good results.

But we had some challenges also that you talked about, I can  relate to it.

[inaudible] money [inaudible] talked about it.

I have one question.

You mentioned  about launching on Hacker News, what kind of campaigns have better result there? B2B, B2C?  What kind of-
Kat Manalac:Yes.

That's a good question.

So the question is, "If you were launching on Hacker  News, what types of companies are better suited to launch on Hacker News, B2B, consumer,  dev tools?" So the Hacker News community is a lot of very smart, technical people,  but you would be surprised.

So I would recommend you go to...

If you go  to news.ycombinator.com/launches, you can see a list, or even Show HN, and you'll see a  list of all the companies.

/launches will show you a list of all the YC  companies that have launched.

Show HN is all general companies that have sort of shared  with their building on HN.

I think you'd be surprised by which companies get the  most upvotes.

So one of the top YC companies of all time that launched on  Hacker News, in terms of upvotes and engagement, was a company called 70 Million Jobs.

 It was a solo, non-technical founder building a company that would help get people who  had criminal records and had previously been in jail connecting them with jobs.

The community  really loved what the founder was building and asked a lot of questions and were  really, really engaged.

So, when I've asked this question to the Hacker News moderators, they're  like...

You know, I always thought, sort of before I talked to them, that dev  tools, right? Like, something very technical would do best on Hacker News.

They said, "That's  absolutely not true.

If you actually look at the numbers, all sorts of companies do  well.".

But what does really well on Hacker News is really lean leaning into the  intellectual curiosity.

Like, is there something really interesting that you've learned from your users that  you can share with the community? Is there something surprising or that they might not  have heard elsewhere? So that's one recommendation I'd have there is it doesn't matter what  industry you are, but really try to speak to the community in a way that  will kind of connect with them.

Then I would look at previous launches that have  done well and see how they've described themselves and how they've kind of teed up  the community to start asking questions.
Speaker 4:And then Reddit, what age range usually you can expect out of that?
Kat Manalac:I really depends.

So what I would recommend with Reddit is that you target a  subreddit that is very specific to...

So Reddit has a lot, like millions, of different  subreddits on every single topic.

So you can find subreddits on TV shows, all the  way to like fitness, and to men's fashion advice, and history buffs.

So what I  would do is I would figure out what is the subreddit that you want to  target first.

And then the demographics are going to be different depending on what subreddit  you go after.

But of course, on average, it's probably like younger male audience.

But  yeah, there are even subreddits that only women are part of, so it really depends.

 Okay, one more question.

In the green.
Speaker 5:What's your advice about launching that home page with very short, very straight points, versus  having a longer page with [inaudible] indicators?
Kat Manalac:Keep it short.

Yeah.

I mean, I think for your landing page, you want it  to be really clear what it is you're building and who it is you're building  for.

But once you start getting into too much detail, I think it can get  muddied or confusing it.

You can certainly add a little bit more detail than just  that, but I would keep copy really tight.

People's attention spans are really short these  days.

I think if you can kind of...

You have a huge community here to  help you A/B Test that messaging and kind of that front page copy.

But I  would recommend to keep it as short and succinct as possible.

Okay.
