# Gustaf Alstromer - Growth for Startups

Gustaf...tromer:My name is Gustaf.

I'm going to give a talk on growth for startups.

This  is going to be for some of you guys, not super relevant right now because  you might not launched, and thinking too much about growth when you haven't launched isn't  that relevant.

But for those of you that launched, this is hopefully going to be  a good talk.

So I'm going to cover three different things today.

First, I'm going  to talk about product-market fit and retention.

The reason that that relates to growth so  much is because working on growth before you have product-market fit and good retention is  not a good idea.

The second thing I'm going to talk about is growth channels  and tactics.

These things definitely apply after you have launched, and often after you have  a good product-market fit.

You've found something that people really want, and then you want  to scale it up to the larger world.

And lastly, I want to talk about  how you make decisions.

When you have several people on your team, you want to  start redoing things and you're not really sure exactly if you're making the right decisions  or not.

And this is all the things that apply when you're a little bit  bigger.

So my background, I learned most of these things I'm going to talk about  at Airbnb.

I worked on the growth team for almost five years from where we  were two people until we were over 100 people on that team.

This is the  team back in 2015, most of the lessons I'll talk to today are things I  learned there.

Most of you are going to be somewhere on this line.

Most startups  don't have product-market fit.

Founders tell themself that they do, and they try to convince  themself that this is working, but the truth is for most companies it's not working.

 So that means you're going to be somewhere on this line.

People also have this  idea that if I launch my product, it will work.

Somehow it's going to work  if I just tell the world that I built my [inaudible] and is now there.

 Now unfortunately that's not the case.

The world is a really busy place and there  isn't really lots of people waiting for you to launch your product.

They're not standing  there and they're not going to try it the moment you launch it.

That is  unfortunately not the truth, and for many people who never thought of these questions before  of how do I reach the world, this actually comes as a surprise.

People have  been used to working in big companies where this is not a problem.

People are  used to going to school or other areas where this is just not a problem.

 In this case, when you launch a startup, it's all down to you and it  is going to be a problem in the very, very early days.

There is a  great article that I recommend for you guys to read on this.

This is called  Doing Things that Don't Scale by Paul Graham.

He wrote that six years ago.

It  is about the early days of the Airbnb story, and the thing that's really important  about this is as a founder, you need to keep two different skillsets in mind  as your company grow.

In the beginning of your company, you're going to do a  lot of things that don't feel right.

They don't feel natural to you because it's  not the kind of thing that you learn in your previous jobs or in school,  especially like the most kind of...

Physical real things that you have to do that  aren't going to be relevant later on.

Well, later on as your company grows bigger,  you're going to be doing a lot of things that are things that relate directly  to software, are things that scale your company.

So these are two things, two skillsets,  that you have to keep in mind at the same time.

In YC we have  this thing where we tell companies that you just launched, you got to do things  that don't scale.

And we got lots of these MBAs that went to school and  said, "Well, this idea does not scale.

Standing outside of this store, or standing in  this elevator to sell people something, that certainly doesn't scale." Correct.

That does not scale.

 But, that is where everyone needs to start.

And if you went to school and  you learned that you should only work on things that really scale, you're going to  have to unlearn that skill because when you start your company, the most important thing  is going to do things that don't scale.

So get comfortable with that idea.

This  is the early days of Airbnb.

So this is sometimes in 2009, they were just  a few people.

The article I mentioned earlier, Doing Things that Don't Scale, tells the  story of the first year or two of Airbnb.

When the founders came to YC,  they had spent almost a year trying to get Airbnb off the ground.

It didn't  really work.

This was the first version of the Airbnb website.

Airbedandbreakfast.com.

In fact, the  website itself didn't really speak to what the company does.

It was started as a  website to offer air mattresses to people that visited design conferences.

And they had to  navigate their way to find the place where Airbnb is today.

When Airbnb joined YC,  the first question they got from Paul Graham was, who are your users? And at  the time, the site looked something like this.

You click on a listing, and you  had three different pieces of information.

You had a photo of the host.

You have  one photo, in this case, of the building from the outside.

And then you have  one map of where that place was.

Now at the time, the only comparison to  what a site like this would look like would be Craigslist.

So Craigslist wasn't a  lot better than this, so at least it met that criteria.

But it wasn't something  that would make Airbnb take off.

They didn't really have in the product what made  Airbnb take off.

The things that were missing is, is a good listing.

How does  this listing actually look like? Can I trust the host? Lots of things that were  missing in that early product, and how do you learn that? The way they learned  that is they went and talked to their host.

On their first week in YC,  Paul Graham told the founders of Airbnb, "You guys go out and meet your host.

 Where are your host?" "Most of our hosts are in New York.

We don't have  that many, but most of them are in New York." So they flew to New  York, undercover, and not on the cover, they claimed to be hired photographers for Airbnb,  Air Bed and Breakfast.

So when they met with all the hosts, they said, "We're  going to come by your home and take photos." They didn't say they were the  founders because that made the company sound much smaller.

They came and met with the  host, and while one of the founders was taking the photos of the listings to  make this look a lot better, the other founder sat down with the host and  asked them questions about how...

What are the challenges you're having with the product? Like  what are the things that are not working? Can you show me how you use  the product? And by doing that, they got for the first time to meet the  people that were their customers, which they really haven't done before, and they got to  see how they use their products.

That's doing things that don't scale, and that is  nothing that scales.

You can't go and fly to meet every single one of your  customers, but when you start doing that, you will learn things that you can't learn  sitting in front of your computer.

So they learned that this payouts thing didn't work,  or there was a big UI bug on this page, or it didn't work on  the Internet Explorer well, all these things that you can't learn sitting in front of  your computer.

They went back to San Francisco.

Back to Y Combinator.

And they sent  an email the morning after and it said, "Here are all the photos we took  of your house.

They're now up on airbedandbreakfast.com, and by the way, we fixed half  of the bugs that you emailed us about," or, "We fixed the bug that you  told us about yesterday." That made the host love them, and those hosts became the  reason that Airbnb eventually took off.

Like doing things that don't scale, fixing the product,  making the product work for the early hosts, which became the backbones of the early  days of Airbnb.

So the lesson here is the founders are the ones who make  startups take off.

The founders, you guys, are the ones who make the startups take  off.

You're going to have to do unconventional things, you're going to have to do  things that don't feel right, certainly going to do things that you didn't learn in  business school, and you're just going to do the things that are needed.

And this  is basically what the YC batch is about.

When someone joins YC, we're going be  like, "You're going to launch, because that's the most important thing you can do right  now." But once you've launched, it's like, "How do I get users?" It's like, "You  got to figure out how to do it." And it's different for every company.

For  many other company, that means sales.

For other companies, that means doing things that don't  scale.

Typically people start with their friends, and then friends have friends, and then hopefully  you get one step further, the people that are now not your friends of friends  and are going to give you true opinion about your company.

Those are the people  you're going to have to reach early on.

It doesn't really start with, "I launched  my website and I put up Google Ads," or, "I launched my website and somehow  it's been discovered." That's not how companies get started.

That's how they end up much  later, but that's not how they get started.

There's only one way to grow when  you're really small, and that is doing things that don't scale.

All right.

Next topic.

 I'm going to talk about product-market fit.

This is terminology that probably most of you  have heard of.

This is a thing that's been hard to measure, or hard for  people to say, "Do I have product-market fit or not?" A lot of people like  to tell themself that they do have product-market fit.

It's this thing that we throw  around as a way to say, "My product is great, so now I have product-market  fit." I would argue that there's some ways you can measure product-market fit, and there  are many ways that you can't, so let's talk about the one thing that I  think is the best way to do that.

I think that the best way to  figure out if product-market fit is to use data, unbiased data, to understand if you  basically have made something people want.

The two ways that I do that, when I  start that, the first way is I try to figure out what is the metric,  the datapoint, that represents the value of your company? That's the first thing I do.

 The second thing I do is try to figure out, how often should I really  be doing that? A great example might be a startup school.

The metric here is  like, are people showing up to the video talks at startup school? How often is  that? It's every week.

All right.

That's pretty easy.

But most companies can be defined  this way.

Let's give some examples.

So Airbnb.

What is the metric represents the value?  Well, it's the bookings and the stays.

It's not the searches.

Search is not that.

 It's going to be the bookings and the stays.

When I travel Airbnb, I've experienced  the value.

So now I know what Airbnb is about.

How often do people do  this? Well, travel is actually mostly an annual thing.

You don't really travel every month.

 Most people don't do that.

So when we were measuring retention, at Airbnb we're looking  at annual.

Let's look at Instagram.

What's the expected use case of Instagram? It's basically  just coming back to Instagram.

Most people are not expected to post photos every day.

 It's just going to be coming back to Instagram and viewing photos.

That's what most  people do.

And that's fine.

That's actually what they want.

They want some people to  post photos sometimes, but most of the time just coming back is good enough.

How  often? Probably every day.

Let's think of a B2B company.

Gusto.

So for Gusto, the  most valuable thing that they do for their customers is their own payroll.

And the  payout money for employees, they are the employees of Gusto's customers.

So how often do  you run payroll? Well, depends.

Probably every bi-weekly or monthly.

And by measuring these two  things, how many people am I running payroll, and are they continually running payroll with  me? That's probably the best way to figure out if people enjoy using Gusto, if  they're going to switch to some other payroll provider.

And finally, Lyft.

You might want  to think it's rides here, that rides is the best metric here.

It's actually riders.

 Like the people that are taking the rides are the ones that matter.

Because it's  the individuals that we want to measure here, and we're not necessarily want to measure  the action that they take.

And that's probably weekly to monthly.

So now we have  these two metrics.

We have a bunch of examples of those companies.

Let's put them  on a graph.

One piece on the graph is going to be the metric, and  the other one is going to be the time window.

So every single time window,  we can put some percentage of those people on the graph.

So let's give an  example.

On week zero in the case of Lyft, you've got 100% drivers.

So what  do I mean by that? I basically mean that if I had...

Like say I  had 10 riders this week that rode with Lyft, they would be calculated on the  week zero.

Now how many of the riders that I had last week are now  traveling with Lyft this week? That is your week one number.

And the week two  number.

And the week three number.

Now why is this important? Because we're trying to  measure repeat usage.

Repeat usage is the best, most unbiased way to figure out if  someone is liking your product.

It's more true than what they tell you.

They might  tell you things, but what they do is going to be the most important thing.

 So most companies can be defined this way, even if you have a B2B contract  company that do annual contracts, measuring say what do people do with my product, could  be a really good way on like this regular basis.

So even if they'll pay  for Gusto on an annual basis, which they don't do, measuring the activity using Gusto  on a regular basis, let's say bi-weekly or monthly, is the way to figure out  if people are actually using the product.

So most of the ideas, even your B2B  or consumers, could be plotted on this line.

Now why is this important? Well, if  you're ever going to raise money, this is a graph that investors are going to  ask for.

How much retention do you have? Are people actually repetitively using your product?  Those are things they're really curious about because they know there are other metrics that  you might have that don't matter.

This is a sign of a bad product.

Basically  every single week after I started using this product, fewer and fewer and fewer people  continued to come back to use the product.

So this graph can be plotted and  basically show that this wasn't a good product.

This however is a good product.

Every  week, it eventually flattens out, and the people that stop on the products, stop using  the product.

And eventually here at week 8, 9, 10, we have a flat line  of people that continues to use the product every single week.

That means that they  are retained.

You have product-market fit for those users for this product.

So I'm not  going to ask you these questions but, here are two examples of two companies that  I would argue have product-market fit.

The first one here has 30% after two months,  and 21% after 20 months.

This is pretty good.

So you kept a fifth of  your users 21 months later.

Or 20 months later.

StoreDash.

StoreDash have a monthly retention  of 20% two years later, a year and a half later.

Here's another company.

More  like a B2B company.

So 80% retention after one month, and then 30% after 60  months.

Is really good.

This is a really good product.

Very sticky.

People like this  product and they don't stop using it.

It's GitHub.

So retention is the best way  to measure product-market fit.

Let's talk about specific things you might want to...

That some  people think is a better way.

I'll argue that they're not.

So here's worse ways  to measure product-market fits.

Net Promoter Score.

Why is it not good? Well, you can  just Google the best products and best companies in the world.

They all have a  bad Net Promoter Score.

Like the iPhone, Apple, all of them have bad Net Promoter  Scores.

Like it doesn't necessarily correlate with good products.

It correlates with perceptions of companies.

 Surveys.

The problem with surveys is they are going to be biased.

So if you  ask your users, you're going to have some level of bias.

There are good ways  to use surveys to improve your products, but it's not going to be the best  way to figure out this metric.

There is one cool question you can ask a  user which is, how would you feel if you could no use this product? Sometimes  this works.

It can give you an idea, but I wouldn't do it instead of  retention.

Always try to always try to find a way to measure retention.

What are  some bad metrics for product-market fit? These are not the kinds of things you want  to throw around as like evidence for your product working.

Registered users.

Really bad.

Does  not say anything about repeat usage or if they liked you or not.

Visitors.

Also  bad.

Does not say anything about whether your product is going to be valuable.

Conversion  rate.

We have this conversion rate of visitors to something else.

Well, that doesn't really  say much because you don't know what people you're converting.

You don't know who they  are.

So this does not say much about product-market fit either.

And finally, something that  should be a paid product, you're giving it away for free, is not a good  sign of product-market fit.

Like you want to figure out if people are willing to  pay for it because price, if someone says, "I love this if it's free, but  if it costs money, I'm not going to use it," that's pretty bad.

That's not  going to work out for you.

So you want to make sure that the people  that are doing something like this on this graphy, if it's expected you pay for  a product, they should be paying for the product.

All right.

Next section.

Let's talk  about growth channels and tactics.

This section really applies if you have product-market fit.

If  most of the people that come to your product go down the drain right away  and they never come back, this section doesn't matter.

Like why would you work on  trying to get more people to a product if no one is using your product  anyway? If most people are just churning, and like they try it once and then  they don't come back, like don't work up this stuff.

Wait with this stuff until  you have some people that care about your product and you can try to use  some of these channels to reach those people specifically.

There's really two ways that you  can grow at scale.

So when I looked at that team, so the photo of  the Airbnb team, they worked on two things.

They either worked on what I call  product growth or conversion rate optimization.

What this means is you have typically engineers, designers,  data scientists, products managers, working on improving specific parts of your product to get more  people through that funnel.

So a good example...

I'm going to give you some examples  in a second.

But that's basically what I define as the first section.

Most of  those people in that photo were in this category.

They were engineers, designers, product managers,  and data scientists.

The second group is what I call growth channels.

Growth channels is  basically platforms in the world that people tend to discover products on.

I'm going to  give you some specific examples.

Google.

It's huge platform for new products to be discovered.

 Anything that you want to use that is a rare behavior in your life, Google.

 That's what you do.

Insurance.

I forgot the insurance.

Google.

I'm going to find a  doctor.

Google.

Everything you do rarely is going to be Google.

Which means lots of  products are being discovered on Google.

And growth channels like Google is an extremely important  one for many companies.

Another one might be Facebook-Instagram.

Advertising on Facebook and Instagram in  critical to companies' growth these days.

What I mean by growth channels I mean is  basically other platforms but your website or your app.

So let's talk about conversion rate  optimization.

What does it mean? Every single step of your product experience is a funnel  that like the retention curve, can be measured.

You can have a metric, and I  think [Ilia] talked about this since earlier shop school talk when he built funnels.

If  you put a metric on every single page in your product, you will know what  percent of people that make it from the first page, say the home page, to  the booking page.

In the case of Airbnb, we call the home page P1, the  search results page P2, and then the booking page, and the listing page P3, and  then the booking page was P4.

Four pages.

That was the entire website.

Now what's  the funnel, what percent of people make it from P1 to P4? What percent? Not  that many.

1%.

2%.

Most people don't make it that far.

Your job is to  figure out how many people make it that far, why are they dropping off, what  can I do to increase that number? That's basically multiple teams or multiple people at  startups that do work on those things.

Every single step in that funnel is going  to have some sort of drop-off for some reason.

They might be that the content  on the page is not suited for them.

I land on Airbnb.

All the content  speaks to Millennials.

I have a family.

There's not good content.

I land on some  other website, and the content doesn't speak to me because I'm not the right customer.

 That's one example of a drop-off that you can fix with content, changing the content.

 Another one might be I land on the website.

It doesn't work because Internet Explorer  is not optimized for that, is not optimized for that.

You're going to drop off.

 So you got to fix that too.

There are lots of different reason people want  to drop off.

Here's some specific things that people tend to work on when they  work on conversion rate optimization.

Internationalization.

If your website or your product is international, translating  it, the product, is really a good idea.

We saw that at Airbnb.

I've seen  that at Facebook.

I've seen that at many other companies where translation is really, really  important.

Authentication.

Most products have some flow where you're signing up.

Now that flow, probably  your products too, have some kind of authentication flow.

That flow is very...

Critical and  the users are kind of vulnerable in that case because they don't really have time  for too much friction.

So if it's not working perfect, they might just go to  the next website.

So make sure the authentication flow works really well.

Look at the  best websites in the world.

Look at Pinterest.

Look at Airbnb.

Look at some of  those sites.

They have teams optimizing these flows, the authentication flow.

Copy what they do.

 They've probably figured it out.

They've spent a lot of time optimizing.

Onboarding.

This is  a huge effort, specifically for products that need a lot of involvement from the users  to be able to become active users.

So a lot of questions you might want  to ask early on in a new product, the more you can onboard your users  by asking them questions that make the experience better, the more active and the more  retained they'll be.

So onboarding, there's lots of things you can do.

And finally, purchase  conversion.

When you're about to purchase, there are a lot of things around urgency and  scarcity and just user flow and UI, all of these things matters, and that's another  great example of conversion optimization.

So let's talk about growth channels.

So again, don't get  here until you have some good sense that this is something people want.

First one.

 Like I said earlier, if this is a rare behavior, most new ideas are rare  behaviors either because they don't exist yet, or because they're not something you do every  day.

We tend to go to Google to learn about things that we don't do  very often.

So that's why if that is the kind of product that you have,  being on Google is going to be really important.

You can be either on Google  through paid marketing, through SEM, or through SEO.

I'll talk about it in a second.

 Second.

Does your product, the people already share your product through word of mouth? So  some products are viral in its nature because it sound really exciting to talk about.

 Lyft and Uber and Airbnb are examples of those.

If that's the case, you want  to make sure you're focused on virality and referrals.

What does that mean? It means  you're building into your product the flow that friends can tell other friends about the  product.

Referrals is a way that you can do that by giving some kind of  financial incentive.

Does the product get better if you have more users? Well, this is  true of marketplaces, but it's specifically true for anything that's social.

So if you think  of a LinkedIn or an Airbnb, sorry LinkedIn or Facebook, then having more people on  the product is going to make it better.

So it's going to be really important  for you to get more people, and those people on your site's going to be  the ones doing it.

So you want to figure out a good viral loop.

When  you sign up to LinkedIn, the first thing they ask you is to invite more  people.

That's because your experience get better when there are more people on LinkedIn.

Now  many products do work this way, and this can be perfected and the ones that  really succeed in the world of...

Social products are the ones that really nailed this  down.

They figure out how to do this really well.

Many people that make social  apps underestimate how important it's going to be to get your friends on that product.

 If you can make a list of all your customers, even if that list is  100,000 or 500,000, as long as it's not mainstream enough they'll be in the tens  of millions, you're probably going to do sales.

You'll make that list, and you start  contacting those people.

Why make it any more complicated? Why go out and reach the  world for people if they're only a few people that you really want to reach?  So most companies in YC these days, if I ask them this question, can you  make a list of your customers? Yeah.

Right.

Make that list.

Start listing them out.

 Who are the people? Decision makers in those companies you're trying to sell to.

These  people.

Make the list.

Email addresses.

Phone numbers.

Trying to figure out how to reach  them.

But start by making the list.

Don't make it complicated by going out in  a world that most people aren't going to be relevant for for your product.

And  finally, this is a channel that nowadays is bigger than it ever has been, and  more important than it ever has been, which is how if you look at how  the entire world of startups has changed in the last 10 years, more and more  of them are churning more money, and therefore, getting what's called a high LTV, high  lifetime value.

By getting high lifetime value, you're enabling the ability to buy paid advertising.

 If you don't have people paying for your product, or you're making money from your  product, you should not be spending time on online marketing.

Now the truth is is  that most companies these days are charging for the products.

They are making money from  the product, and therefore they spend money on online marketing.

If that's true for you,  this can be an extremely powerful channel.

The biggest mistakes founders make is they start  working on online marketing when they don't have people paying for the products.

Here's an  insight you probably didn't think of.

Most really big companies didn't use all of those  channels.

They use one or two channels.

So think of a TripAdvisor.

How is TripAdvisor  big? SEO.

You guys type in something on Google, you land on TripAdvisor, and that's  how you found this website.

Most companies have a setup where there's going to be  one or two channels that really matters.

If you think of Pinterest, SEO is the  real way how Pinterest is growing.

You type something in on Google, the order access  the Pinterest board for that, and you land on that Pinterest board.

That's how they  acquire new users.

All right.

I'm going to give some specific tactical advice on some  of these channels.

The first one I talked about is referrals and virality.

So referrals  is word of mouth.

If word of mouth is a strong driver of your product,  then referrals is going to be one way that you can amplify that word of  mouth.

How do I define referrals? Financial incentive to tell your friends about the product.

 That's my definition.

This is the Airbnb referral product.

You give someone $40 to sign  up to Airbnb, and when they do, I get $20.

Pretty simple concept.

We had  that on the website and on the mobile app.

Now, that's actually more complicated than  you might think.

This entire product funnel where there's multiple steps in that funnel, I'm  not going to go into details here, but if you think of a referrals product  is not just as simple as throwing that offer out.

That's probably what you want  to do in the very beginning, but once you have referral power, you want to  start measuring each of these steps.

Like what is that referral offer? How many people  go to that page? How many people send invites? How many of those invites are  being clicked on? How many of those people sign up from those invites? How many  of those people are signed up and are booking? Each one of those steps is  a step in this funnel.

Let's talk about one specific step, the referrals email invite.

 So we would spend a lot of time optimizing this step because there were lots  of people getting their referrals email invite at Airbnb.

So what are the things you  can optimize on a referral invite email? First, who's the sender of the email? If  it's just Airbnb, I probably never heard of Airbnb for the first time I get  this email.

If it's Gustaf that sent the email, and I send it to my  friends, they have heard of me.

That's the reason to open the email.

So people  open the email.

Clear value.

What is this email about? Many emails you start with  text.

Don't start with text.

Just have the clear value prop at the top.

Why  should I care about this email? In this case, it's extremely simple.

Gustaf sent you  $40 for your first trip.

That sounds good.

What is that about? I'm going to  read about it.

When do I have to care about this? By this date.

In  the next month.

So I can't just leave this email and never open it again.

 I have to do it right now.

What do I have to do here? Well,  I could sign up, which is an undefined thing that you can do sometime in  the future, or I can do what we did here was accept my invitation.

That  sounds more exclusive.

That sounds like something that is just for me.

It doesn't sound  like something I can do anything in the future.

And finally, here's some social proof  from this email.

This is me.

I live in San Francisco.

We can reveal that.

 I've actually been a member of Airbnb since 2009, and we can reveal that as  well.

Let's talk about pay growth.

Each of these sections, referrals, pay growth, SEO, can  be a presentation on its own.

So it's impossible for me to go into deep  details on this, but if you're determined that you have product-market fit, you want to  go on these channels and this is the channel you want to go deep on,  you're going to have to go really deep on it because being really good at  one of these channels requires a lot of work.

So there's lots and lots of  stuff online about how to get really good at one of these channels.

It doesn't  really make sense to get good at all of them because most of you won't  really need all of them.

The number one lesson in paid growth, i.e.

Online marketing,  is to not do it unless you have revenue.

This is the most common mistake  that founders make is they somehow start buying ads for products, and they'll never be  able to pay them back.

Don't do that.

The next thing you want to figure  out is what's called CAC, customer acquisition cost.

How much does it cost to acquire  a new paying or new valuable customer? If someone's giving you value back.

Many of  the advertising tools like Google and Facebook have a very clear system for how they  calculate this, and once you start running ads, they'll start telling you what the cost  is going to be.

Next is going to be that your revenue, projected revenue from  this user, is going to have to be higher than the CAC, higher than the  cost.

Very simple.

Otherwise you can't do this.

So how do you know? This is  the common question you get early on in paid marketing.

Well, it seems like in  eight months, it will be higher, but not in the first month.

Well, you can't  take all your money and spend on something that you have no clear certainty of  is going to happen in the future.

So you're going to have to either wait  eight months, or you're going to look for early indicators that your hypothesis about the  value is going to be stronger.

The best thing a startup can do is don't  wait eight months.

You just have a much lower...

Like a much lower target on  what your CAC is going to be.

Maybe one month, two months, three months, first  transaction, something like that.

That's a much better way to do it.

The main channels  for online marketing these days is going to be Google, Facebook-Instagram.

That's pretty much it.

 Let's talk about search engine optimization.

This has changed a lot in the last couple  of years.

It's very competitive.

And what changed is there used to be millions of  websites that each would rank for tens of millions of keywords.

Now what we have  changed is that the really big companies started getting really good at ranking for all  those keywords.

So a Pinterest or a TripAdvisor might rank for every single travel keyword  that you can imagine.

That's hard for small companies.

What that means is that if  you're going to rely on search engine optimization to grow, you're going to have to  be as good as a Pinterest or a TripAdvisor.

Eventually.

Not right away, but eventually.

 Because it's so competitive to win in this like large world of SEO.

When you  get started, you can think of this way.

SEO is zero sum game.

Basically you're  competing against others, so what you do in SEO is going to be a matter  of would you compare to others.

The second thing is that the keywords that people  search for are changing constantly.

So if you're building something new, let's say ASMR, I  think, was a thing that came up recently.

Lots of companies are able to rank  for that because this is a new keyword.

There weren't websites built 10 years ago  that ranked for that because the thing didn't really exist.

All right.

Let's talk about  SEO, how it works on the technology side.

This is the Airbnb search results page.

 This is what you and me see when we go to Airbnb.

This is what  Google see.

Google just see text.

So to be good at SEO, you need to  understand what text am I showing to Google so Google can understand what the website  is about.

Google can't understand what your site is about, it's not going to rank  it.

What are the two main levers for SEO? The first one is going to  be things I do on my page.

So for example, what's the title of the  page? Can Google read the page? Does the page throw errors? What specific page in  my, keyword am I trying to rank my page for? Well, start with the keywords,  do some research and see what are people searching for.

How many people are searching  for ASMR in the United States per month? Maybe I want to try to rank  for that keyword.

Well, Build a Website is trying to rank for that keyword.

Start  with Google.

Don't start with your own content.

You don't know exactly what people are  searching for, so you're going to start doing some research.

The second thing is the  thing you can't do that much about which is called off page optimization or domain  authority or something like that, which basically means how valuable does Google perceive your website  to be in the grand scheme of all websites.

And the more inbound links you  get from press, the more links you get from all kinds of people that also  have high authority, the more valuable your website will be in the eyes of Google,  which means it will rank you higher on some of the keywords you're trying to  rank for because it will compare you to other websites and see if they seem  more or less authoritative.

I'm going into details here.

A lot is basically high Google  work.

If you're curious about this, you can Google page rank and go to the  Wikipedia article on page rank.

Basically it will explain sort of like high level how  Google works.

Final section, I'm going to go through this one a little faster.

Most  of you guys don't have to focus on A/B testing at all.

It won't matter  for a long time.

It is a great decision making tool later on.

Here's the  situation that startups tend to get into.

I want to launch a new home page.

 I want to launch a new design.

I did, and the numbers went down.

What  happened? It's a really hard problem to launch something new and then sort of just  look at the metric over time.

Don't do that.

There's a better way.

First, before  you get into that stage, you want to figure out is A/B testing something I  want to do? The best way to do that is to go to Google and  type in A/B testing calculator.

Think of the metrics that you're trying to change here.

 So like visitors to some conversion metric.

Put them into the first link you see  on Google, and they'll tell you whether it's going to be worth doing.

Mostly it  won't be worth doing for quite a while.

So here's the example I'm trying to  give you on the website.

So I want to ship a new experience, our new  design on the home page.

So let's ship it.

The metric went up.

Or the  metric went down.

Either way, like I don't know if the website actually caused it  or not.

The only way for me to know if this new design actually changed  the metric is if I had an alternative site of history.

Think of two different  parallel universes at the same time, one with a new design and one with the  old design.

If I had that, I can tell exactly what happened.

That's the definition  of A/B testing.

You basically have two different parallel universes of the thing you shipped  at the same time, and you measure the metrics that matter to you.

The reason  this is so powerful, it helps you make decisions at scale.

What ends up happening  to founders when they get five or 10 people in the company and they launch  a new design and they're arguing about what caused the thing to go up or  go down, the only way to really know is to run an A/B test to  figure out what does the metric say about why it went up or down.

This  is hard to internalize because most people think of themself as good product thinkers.

So  I want to talk about one thing called experimental view.

This is at Airbnb.

How  many here think that you guys have good product instincts? Raise your hand.

You guys  are founders.

You should have good product instincts.

All right, let's see how good they  are.

All right.

I'm going to give you two examples.

So at Airbnb, we launched  a new sharing sheet for the mobile app, and this was the old version which  was the native share sheet that you've seen on iOS.

You click on share and  then you see a bunch of sharing options.

And then we just tried this new  share sheet that showed more options, called this the experiment, but it didn't really look  native.

So the question was, which one is better? Well, we didn't really know so  we launched an A/B test.

We launched both of them at the same time for  different users.

The goal here was to measure number of shares.

So all right.

How  many here think that the control was better? How many people think that this experiment  was better? How many people thought there was no difference? This is quite common.

This  is about 40% better for us.

So thank God we ran experiments because if this  was the decision making group, then we wouldn't have made the right decision.

Next one.

 Should we have a sign up wall or not in the app? Now these are  not necessarily learnings that you can apply to your companies right away, but it was  an important decision for us to determine.

So should we have people just open their  Airbnb app and go straight into the app, or should we have an experiment where  you can click out and X out the sign up wall, or should we have  a sign up wall that is a wall that you can't climb over? You have  to sign up, otherwise you can't use the Airbnb app.

Which one is better? How  many here think that the control, no sign up wall is better? Raise your hand.

 How many people thought that the experiment where you can X out and then sign  up was better? How many people thought that just like this wall you can't climb  over was better? That's the fewest amount of people.

All right.

So this was a  little better.

We got 2.6% more bookings from iOS by making people sign up through  a sign up wall in the app.

Why is that? Well, we knew something about  them so we can show them more personalized stuff.

And when they were about to  book, we already had them sign up so didn't have to at the time of  booking go through the motions of signing up.

You want to learn why it cost  us, the whole point is basically when you get big enough, when you're starting to  grow and you have these decisions about should I launch this thing or not, this  is a really good way to do it.

Product decisions are really hard, so using  data to make them is a good way.

Most of you won't have to worry  about this for a while, so don't worry about it.

Here's a summary of my  talk today.

Most of you need to do things that don't scale.

You are not  at the place where you can think about real growth things the growth teams do.

 So you have to unlearn the things you've learned at your big companies or MBA  programs, and just do things that don't scale.

Secondly, you want to measure your retention  to understand if you have product-market fit.

There are other ways too, but that's the  best way in my opinion.

And third, you want to build a culture of experimentation.

 You want to use data and not have the loudest voice in your room deciding  what the best decision is, but you want to use data and experimentation to decide  what is the best decision.

Probably doesn't matter right now, but it will matter at  some point.

Thank you.

Do we have time for questions? All right.

A couple of  questions.

Yes, right there.
Speaker 2:For marketplace data, at which stage do we have to start measuring the product-market fit,  because I think you mentioned that surveys can be biased, but only paid users will  be accurate to measure product-market fit, so at which stage in a startup should we  measure it?
Gustaf...tromer:The question was if I'm a marketplace startup, at what stage should I be measuring  product-market fit? So let's think about what the metrics might be.

The first metric is  probably on one side of the marketplace, the supply, how often are they coming back  or doing the thing that they're doing? And then the other side is demand, how  often are they coming back and doing what they're doing? Hopefully these are not like  Airbnb where it's like once a year on the demand side.

It's more frequent than  that.

Because then you can measure right away.

There's no need to wait.

In the  case of Airbnb where supply would happen every month or every couple of weeks, you  certainly want to measure and see if your hosts are sticking around.

If they're sticking  around, that means they're doing their host bookings repeatedly.

That means there's something good there.

 On the demand side, depends on how long you'll take to get the second booking  on the demand side.

But I would measure both of them like pretty early.

Like  if I was an investor and I would meet with an early marketplace startup, I  would want to understand, what is the repeat usage, and I decide.

That's the thing  I really care about.

So I would want you to measure right away.

Now that  measurement is not going to solve the doing things that don't scale.

So this is  like a thing you do in the background while you're doing all the things that  don't scale.

Yes?
Speaker 3:Quick question.

Local search on engine optimization vs.

National, what are the key differences? If  focus is very much on the local, what should we care about more compared to  national?
Gustaf...tromer:So the question is, what matters more for local search? Our work can't tell exactly  what matters.

The Google algorithm is a black box, so it's hard to say.

The  most important thing that I would say that matters to Google is to really think  about what intentions does the searcher have when they put something into Google.

So if  look for apartments, apartments in San Francisco, what can I be meaning? I could be  meaning renting apartments long term.

I could be meaning short-term rentals.

I could be meaning  a lot of different things around apartments.

I could be meaning like the concept of  apartments.

The more you understand of the intention of the people that are typing in  specific keywords...

Say if I type in coffee shops on Mission Street, that's probably a  high intention that they want to go to a coffee shop on Mission Street.

So  I think that's the first thing you want to really figure out, is like what  keywords have that high intention for the things that I offer.
Speaker 3:Like in local cultures, or local activities and things-
Gustaf...tromer:Yeah.

So local activity is like, if someone says like, "What are fun things to  do in [inaudible]?" Or, "What are the art shows in Oakland?" Like that was a  clearly...

People that live in those cities that this is going to be most relevant  for, and you want to rank for all of it because you're not going to  sit in Florida and type in those two things.

Most likely.

So I would just  try to understand what are the keywords that matter to you, and what is the  intention behind those keywords.
Speaker 4:On the topic of marketplaces, if my users are buying at different rates, some users  are buying once a week, some users once a month, once every few months...

Just  to give you an example, I run a website that connects graphic designers to creative  entrepreneurs for artwork, and some people need that once a week, once a month like  I said.

How do I measure, for user retention, how do I measure that for  product-market fit when everyone's kind of buying at different rates?
Gustaf...tromer:So the question was, for a marketplace for people buying graphic design, how do I  measure the product-market fit on each side if people have different sort of like cycles  through which when they buy that? Well, first I would try and figure out who  are those different people that have these different cycles.

Like are they different kinds of  companies? Is there one group I'd rather focus on than the other? If I were  Lyft, I'd rather focus on people that travel daily than people that travel yearly, so  that makes more sense for me to spend time on trying to acquire more of  those people.

So in your case, I would try to figure out what's the intersection  between the most valuable people that are the most frequent.

It's rare that you'll have  massive differences in retention and they're both love your product, if that makes sense.

It's  very rare that you have people use Uber once a year, and then you have  lots of people use it every day, and somehow that you should be focusing on  both.

If you have people using it once a year, if you are Uber, your  goal will be to get them to use you more often.

So I would try  to think of like, what is the ideal use case that how often they will  be using what I'm doing, how often do you start up a new graphic design,  and if they only need it once a year, you've probably not gotten the product  to a point where you thought of all the use cases they would need for  graphic design.

There are probably a lot of other things, everything from like logos, to  website design, to landing pages, to stickers, to like gazillion things.

Like if they're more  of these things that you can incorporate into your offering, probably you'll get that more-frequent  use case.

But I would measure both on the supply side, the designers, how many  jobs are they taking on the marketplace? Are they stopping to take jobs? If so,  why? This is typically in the early days a great source of ideas for a  roadmap.

Why do people stop using my product? Talk to them.

Call them.

Email them.

 Do anything you can to understand why someone stopped using your product because that's the  things you have to fix.

Yes?
Speaker 5:I'm curious of this double for Airbnb, especially because like a new theme for Air  Bed and Breakfast, it was like a hotel you could depend on.

How was the  difference between experience of people, some who try Airbnb and is like, "Oh, Air Bed  and Breakfast is not a thing for me," vs., "Oh, this specific host is not  a thing for me," because the variance might be very, very high.

How [inaudible]-
Gustaf...tromer:So the question was, if the quality or the variance of a product, early days,  is very different for different people, like how is that for Airbnb?
Speaker 5:For different sellers because you have the good sellers in Airbnb, right?
Gustaf...tromer:Yes.
Speaker 5:So what would be...

Give a quite different experience?
Gustaf...tromer:So the question was, how do you deal with the fact the hosts give different  quality experiences, or different experiences? Well, in a marketplace, you want to make sure you  deliver consistent experience.

So the best way to do that is to do some kind  of reputation system.

So Airbnb, one of the best decisions early on is to have  the money, the payments, go through the platform, and once you've paid, you're allowed to  give a review, but only then.

It's only people that stayed with someone and paid  can give a review.

Once you have that review, you can start weeding out bad  hosts and promote the good ones.

That is the best way that I can give  you that will deliver consistency of experience.

Now a new host, how do you know  if it's going to be consistent? You don't really know.

So a new driver on  Uber, you don't really know.

You have to do the best that you can to  onboard them.

Two more questions.

In the very back.
Speaker 6:I just want to [inaudible] something that you said that will test this.

As far  as you saying that, "Hey, your product is not great.

Someone is just going to  go somewhere else." Right? And kind of saying that, hey, get something out there really  quick.

So for example, I have a product that when you log in, it looks  pretty mature.

I can charge for it, right? And I'm kind of balancing like, do  I really want to be nit picky about this because I don't want to charge  for it right off the bat, or just put it up-
Gustaf...tromer:So the question is, I have this product.

I could charge for it right away,  but I'm not sure if I want to do that because then it might turn  away more people.

I would say the true...

You should probably charge for your product  right away, because otherwise you're going to build for people who prefer the free version,  and you're going to build the features that the people that prefer the free version  would want which isn't necessarily the people that value the product.

So a good example  here might be, if I build something that can both work for consumers and companies,  should I charge of it? Well, consumers are going to be much less likely to  pay for it than companies.

So companies are the more valuable ones, so you should  focus on the features they want to build for the more valuable customers.

So I  would argue you should probably charge right away, and if you don't charge for it,  it's kind of like asking your friend, "What do you think about this product?" "Oh,  it's great."
Speaker 6:Well, my question was more along the lines of I'm going to charge right away.

 Do I just put it out there as is, or do I continue like ridiculously  testing to make sure that somebody signs up and they stay?
Gustaf...tromer:Oh.

So the question was, should I charge for it right away? You are going  to charge for it right away.
Speaker 6:But it's just a matter of I can launch today, or I can launch it  like two weeks from now and it's a lot more refined so that the people  that signed up are more likely to stay.
Gustaf...tromer:So the question is that when should I launch basically, because I have more ideas  of things I want to work on this? Most people charge too late...

Launch too  late and not too early.

And if you launch too early, like Kat said, you  have many, many opportunities to launch again.

The launch is not this big dramatic moment  where you get judged by the entire world, and if they say, "No," then they'll  never come back again.
Speaker 7:I think, I've never seen a company die from losing customers in the first two  weeks.
Gustaf...tromer:I've never seen company die, they're losing customers in the first two weeks.

Basically, you  should launch right away.

That's the answer.

And if it doesn't work, launch again.

Last  question.

Right there.
Speaker 8:I'm part of a company.

We have a platform campaign so we're essentially taking pre-orders.

 We can't optimize for retention yet, so there's no product-market fit, the product isn't shipping  until December, we have about 500 orders right now.

Do I...

What do you think  about adding like paid acquisitions? Because I am getting enough revenue basically.
Gustaf...tromer:So the question is I have a harder product I haven't launched yet.

I'm doing  Kickstarter, so I can't measure product-market fit.

You don't have to worry about product-market fit  at all because it doesn't matter.

You don't really know if people are going to  use your product yet because you haven't built it.

So that's the truth here.

Your  goal is to launch it, but because it's more expensive than just a website, you're  going to need a lot more money to launch it.

As long as the CAC  trail that we work out, that you are paying some money to acquire people through  Kickstarter and you get more money back from those people, you could do paid.

You're  going to have to be very good at understanding those two things, measuring the difference  between the CAC and LTV, and I don't know to what extent Kickstarter provide the  tools for you to measure specifically the people that came in through your ads and  the ability to measure the return on investment for those people.

But that's the thing  you really need to figure out.

I think it could be fine if you know  what you're doing.

I think it's risky to spend money on...

Boosting a Kickstarter product.

 I think what I've seen on most of the successful ones, what they do is  to try to get their friends early on in the product, in that launch, so  that it has momentum right away, and the momentum itself will carry on the Kickstarter  campaign.

That's what I've seen.

All right.

Thank you very much.
