# Kirsty Nathoo - Startup Finance Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them

Kirsty Nathoo:Morning, everybody.

Thank you for coming in at 9:00.

It's an early start.

As Kevin  mentioned, my name is Kirsty Nathoo, and I'm the CFO here at Y Combinator.

So  I've actually helped now 2000 companies almost, as they've come through Y Combinator.

Seen a  lot of successes and seen a lot of failures.

I'm going to help you just  understand some of the big mistakes that we see some of these companies doing based  on their cash, and based on their money.

For every business, whether it's a startup  or a mom-and-pop shop, cash is its lifeblood.

If you run out of cash, then  the business dies.

There's really no going back at that point.

It's actually surprisingly easy  to run out of cash.

We see many startups not realize that they have done  that until it's too late to actually be able to turn it round and do  something about it.

We're going to talk about these three early stage pitfalls.

This is  probably most relevant to you right now.

Then we'll talk through another three that, as  you start to raise money and are starting to think about hiring, some of the  other mistakes that companies make.

We're going to look at what the numbers you should  be looking at, how often you should be looking at them, whether your expenses are  realistic, and then thinking a little bit more about hiring and looking at responsibilities.

All  right, so let's move on to the first one.

The first mistake is really not  knowing what numbers to look at to make sure that the health of your company  is good.

Really, there are three things that you should know, your bank balance, the  money coming in, and the money going out.

These are not difficult.

You don't need  anything fancy to be able to do this.

This is all information you can get  from your online banking or your bank statements.

You don't need bookkeepers, you don't need  financial software.

This is super straightforward, but you would be amazed at how many companies  don't look at this.

Then using these three numbers, you can then calculate some other  things.

You can look at burn, you can look at your runway, you can look  at growth rates, and you can figure out whether the company is default alive.

Let's  go through these in order.

Your burn is purely money in minus money out.

Again,  you can get this from your bank statements.

It's effectively just the change in bank  balance between two dates.

As an example, super easy.

You have 25K expenses, you have  10K of revenue, so your burn is 15K.

If your expenses are a little bit  lumpy, some companies, you might have a one off month, where were you, I don't  know, paid a legal bill or something that's super high, you can do this.

You  can look at average expenses as well to figure out your burn, and that's often  referred to as average burn.

You might look at just over three months to get  more of an idea.

Then once you know your burn, then you can start to  look at what your runway is.

What this means is how long do you have  until you run out of money? The way that you calculate that is you look  at your existing bank balance divided by your average burn, and that gives you a  number of months.

Here, we have 150K in the bank.

We've just calculated our burn  rate to be 15K, and so we have 10 months of runway.

Again, super straightforward,  but you'd be amazed at how many companies or how many founders don't know these  numbers for their company.

Just a point here that, again, the burn might change over  time.

But this is a number for you, this is not a number to try  to make things look good.

This is for you to not lie to yourself.

So  looking at the burn and going, "Well, this month it was 15K but let's just  pretend it was 10K, so then that makes it look like that we have 15  months of runway left." All you're doing is lying to yourself.

You're still going to  run out of money on the same day.

It's just making you feel better right  now.

It's super important to really be honest with yourself on these.

You can also  look at your growth rate.

This is just looking at two periods of time, so  your money in in month two minus your money in in month one, divided by  your money in in month one.

This is looking at the rate that your revenue  is increasing.

In our example here, we have 10K of revenue in July, 12K in  August, and so our growth rate is 20%.

Just a note for the people that  weren't the math wizes at school, a constant growth rate is what's going to give  you the J-curve in growth of revenue.

Because if you have 20% growing each month,  as your numbers increase each month, that 20% is a larger number.

Okay.

Then the  final one is whether the company is default alive, or the other side of it  is, is it default dead? The way you calculate this is, if your expenses are  constant and your revenue growth that you've just calculated continues, have you got enough cash  to reach profitability? There's a handy little calculator that Trevor Blackwell, who's one of the  founders of Y Combinator, created for you to do this.

Basically, there are three things  that you can play with.

You can look at your monthly expenses, which is the  red line, you can look at your monthly revenue starting point, which is the green  point over at the start, and then you can change the gradient of that line  to be your growth rate and it will calculate where you become profitable and how  much capital is needed.

Now, this example isn't the same numbers as the ones that  we've just been working through.

In this example, this is assuming that you will need  150K of money to get to profitability and it will take you two years.

Those  are really key things to know, because if you only have a 100K of money  in your bank account, you know that you've got a problem and you know that  you either need to find a way to increase your revenue growth or you need  to find a way to cut expenses.

Because the whole goal here is to be  at the point where you can find a path to profitability because it gives you  freedom.

Being profitable gives you freedom because you aren't in a position to need to  raise money.

Like dating, if you don't need to raise money, you appear less desperate,  so the investors want to give you money more so it's easier to raise money.

 It's actually really important to have that option.

It can sometimes be a switch as  well.

You don't have to necessarily be profitable right now, but if you know that  you could turn off one specific expense or do one specific thing and be profitable,  then that's also a great safety net.

There's also a really great essay that talks  about this in more detail.

This was written by Paul Graham, and you can see  the link here to where that gives you more information on this.

Again, it's the  kind of thing that when we're doing office hours with founders, it's one of the  first questions we ask, and you'd be amazed how many people don't know the answer.

 These numbers, super easy to calculate, super straightforward.

The next problem is that people go  along and they say, "Okay, I've looked at my runway, I've looked at my revenue,  I know all my numbers," and then forget about it.

But actually, this needs to  happen pretty often.

You shouldn't be looking at it every quarter or every month, you  should be looking at it at least every week, and if your runway is getting  low or things are looking not very constant, consistent, you should be looking at it  very often, sometimes daily.

Whenever anyone asks, you should know your numbers.

Have a thing  now ...

How many of you know how much money is in the company bank  account, if you already have one? Great.

How much of you know your runway? Slightly  less numbers, slightly less hands, but that's pretty good.

I like it.

I'm impressed.

Okay.

 The next one is under-representing your expenses.

If you think back to that default alive  calculator, that assumes that your expenses are going to remain constant.

Actually in reality, that's  probably unlikely.

Most startups, their expenses will ramp up over time.

You should understand how  that's going to happen.

What kind of expenses are going to increase, and what are  they going to increase to? Some examples of expenses that may change over time, the  first one is undervaluing your own time.

Particularly in the early days, where you're doing  everything and you're either paying yourself minimum wage or some very small amounts, which by  the way, in California, everybody should pay themselves minimum wage, and you're also doing things  that don't scale in order to acquire users.

That's totally fine, and that's what we  recommend that people do.

But it can make your customer acquisition costs look lower than  really they are.

You should be aware that, over time as you start to hire  people to look into these, that those expenses are going to go up.

Hiring people  is not just the salary.

For every person that you hire, you need to provide  them with equipment, you need probably desk space, you need health insurance probably depending on  where you're based.

All of these things cost extra money on top of the salary.

 Depending on location, a good rule of thumb is this, an employee will cost about  25 to 50% more than just their salary.

If they're being paid a 100K a  year, then your fully loaded cost to the company is going to be somewhere between  125K to 150K.

Again, that's super easy to forget about.

You think, "Oh, I'm going  to hire an engineer, I'm going to pay them a 100K.

That means that's all  it's going to cost." But it's amazing how those numbers do add up.

So just  be aware of those.

Finally, assuming paid acquisition costs remain constant is another mistake that  we see people make a lot.

Whilst it may not seem like this, oftentimes in  the early days, is actually easiest to find your early users because they're the ones  that are totally motivated to use the product.

Actually over time, it gets harder to  find and convert users, and so the cost of doing that goes up.

Again, you  should be thinking about that.

You should be looking at what your costs are right  now and seeing, thinking, "Are they reasonable? What do we think they might go up  to?" Because if you can look at things, in the worst case scenario, you calculate  that you have eight months of runway left, but actually then things are better than  that and you end up with 10 months of revenue, then that's bonus, right? You've  got a bit longer to figure things out.

Runway is not a vanity metric.

It's  not one of these things that's supposed to make you feel good, it's not one  of the things that supposed to be used to compare yourself against other companies.

It's  for you to know the health of your company, and so don't ignore this stuff.

 Don't lie to yourself, don't you try to massage these numbers to feel like it's  making yourselves better, because all that's going to happen is you run out of money  and it'll become a shock.

All right.

These ones now are starting to get a  little bit more as you raise money, as you starting to hire people.

It's good  to bear in mind right now, but these are probably less relevant to a lot  of you for now.

Okay.

The first one is outsourcing responsibility, and often the CEO  will hire a bookkeeper to prepare the finances for a company as they start to  get a little bit more complex, and that's a total normal thing to do.

We  recommend that people do that.

It's usually once people raise some money.

It's not a  good use of the CEO's time to be doing the books, and the CEO could  be doing much more high leverage things.

But the thing to bear in mind is  that even though the bookkeeper is doing the books and preparing those numbers, the responsibility  is still everybody's in the company.

Particularly the CEO, but all the founders, everybody should  know what these numbers are.

An external bookkeeper isn't going to know the business like  you know the business.

Oftentimes, the way that they work is that they will get  hold of bank statements and they'll see money coming in and they'll see money coming  out and they'll do their best guess about what these things are and they won't  always be right, and you can't really expect them to always be 100% right, because  they're looking at it from a very removed position.

So it's up to the founders  and it's up to the team to look at those reports that the bookkeeper send  every month, and to make sure that you understand them, and to make sure that  if anything that comes through that looks strange, you question.

It's not necessarily ...

I  think a lot of it is that people are concerned that asking questions will make  it look like they don't understand their numbers.

But usually what happens is, if you  don't understand what these numbers are looking like, is usually because there's been some misunderstanding  in the reporting of the numbers.

If you're like, "Well, I thought my revenue was  going to be a bit higher this month.

What's going on? Why is this this  number?" Then you can actually go in and look and query what's going into that,  and you might find that there has been a mistake made.

This is probably one  of the number one things that I get founders coming to me complaining about.

They'll  come up to me in this total panic, and they'll be like, "That bookkeeper messed  up and they told us all this wrong stuff, and now I have no runway  and I don't know what's going on," and actually what happened is the bookkeeper sent  them the monthly reports.

They were like, "Tick! Done my work." Founders didn't look at  the reports, didn't figure out what was going on, and now there isn't enough time  left for them to turn the business round either to get profitable or to raise  money to figure things out, and the company dies because it runs out of cash.

 So super, super important to be on this all the time.

Hiring too quickly and  scaling the company too quickly is really easy to do, to hire too quickly, because  you're under a lot of pressure to hire people.

It feels like it's a really  easy, really measurable piece of information.

You talk to founders and one of the first  questions that they will often ask is, "Oh, so how many employees are you at  right now?" You say, "Oh, I'm at 25," and you're thinking, "oh no, I've only  got 10 employees.

That means that they're way more successful than I am." Actually, that's  totally not true.

We already mentioned that hiring employees cost more than just their salary.

 But you should also be conscious that every hire is actually an investment into the  business, and you should be making sure that you're getting a return on that investment.

 Now, for some types of employees, that are super easy to measure.

So think about  a salesperson.

If they're not bringing in more sales than it's costing the business to  hire them, then clearly, you're not getting a good return on investment.

But then think  about a community manager or a support manager, it's much harder to measure that, and  that's one of the things that, as a CEO, you need to be looking at  and you need to be figuring out to make sure that all the people in  your company are actually working to make the company more valuable.

Sadly, this is the  point where, if people aren't working out, you should be prepared to fire fast.

If  people aren't pulling their weight, then they need to leave the company.

Like I say,  it's easy to fall into this trap, the more people you have, the better you're  doing.

But actually the best companies do more with less.

Actually, the real way that  you should measure yourselves is, what's my ratio of revenue to employees? Because the higher  that is, the better you're doing.

You're doing more with less.

That's the path to  being profitable from an early stage, which then takes the pressure off too, the worry  about whether the company is going to continue.

It's also easy to feel like you  have to compete with all the flashy startups that have raised bunches of money and  they're all hiring data scientists right now, and "Oh, that means I must need a  data scientist, so I better hire a data scientist." Actually, don't.

Again, the best companies  do more with less, and if you can build a really great company with less  employees, then that's amazing for everybody involved.

Bear in mind, you should be treating this  money carefully.

It's not a case of just, "Oh, I need to hire this person.

 I need to hire that person," because what the investors who are giving you this  money for, they're asking you to do something, basically a miracle.

They're asking you to  take their money and turn it into 10 or a 100 times that amount of  money to give back to them.

The way you're going to do that is by  being careful with your expenses and making sure that your revenue grows.

As a follow  on to that, scaling before you get product market fit is also another dangerous thing  that people fall into quite easily.

At the point where you're still figuring out what  your product is and you're trying to find product market fit, you should be spending  as little as possible, and then that will give you the runway to have time  to figure out what it is that you should be building, and then people will  be beating down the door to buy your product.

More employees will not help you  get to product market fit.

It will not help you get there faster, it will  not help you get there more efficiently.

One of the conversations that I have with  founders is something along the lines of, "Oh, my sales are low because I don't  really have enough salespeople.

So if I hire another couple of salespeople, then my sales  will obviously increase." That doesn't sound like product market fit to me.

If you have  that, then customers are beating a path to your door, and it feels like the  wheels are falling off as you're trying to look after all those customers.

Just hiring  more salespeople isn't necessarily going to be the thing that sets that going.

Also, convincing  yourself that you need more developers or you need more people to get the thing  that gives you the product market fit.

Another conversation along this is something like, "I  need four more developers because then I can build feature X, Y and Z, and  then obviously, everybody will buy it." But again, if you have product market fit, then  even your janky V zero that doesn't have all of these fancy things, is solving  a big enough problem for everybody that they are willing to pay for it and  they love you for it anyway, and then you can start building up on the  more features, and then you can start hiring to do that.

This is the one  that there's no coming back from.

The other ones, if you make these mistakes, you  can probably solve this, and if you hire too quickly, you can figure that out.

 If you don't know your numbers, you can learn your numbers.

This is the one  that is no going back.

If you let your runway get too low before raising,  you're going to have problems raising your money.

The first thing is you should always  assume that you will never raise any more money.

Always assume that the previous money  that you raised will be your last, and that you should be aiming to get  to profitability on that money.

Again, the conversations that I have with founders where they  say, "Oh, it's fine.

My investors are going to put in another million dollars.

It'll  be totally fine." That's scary if you're relying on your investors to do that, because  they don't always.

Sometimes they might, but they don't always.

So seed stage money is  the money that you'll raise off and on just an idea.

You'll be able to  talk to investors about an idea for a product you've got a hypothesis, that you  want to be able to check and they will give you some money.

Once you  get to series A and beyond, that becomes much, much harder.

You need sustained growth,  you need to have more of an idea, you need to have product market fit.

 This is why it's a lot harder to raise money as you go through the  life of the company.

In particular, don't leave it too late because if you're running  out of runway, your leverage goes down as you're trying to raise money.

If you  have six months of runway, let's say, and you think you're about to go and  start raising money, that's pretty scary.

It could take three months more to actually get  an investor to agree to put money in, and as your cash balances are decreasing  over those three months, you're losing leverage.

You can see from here that probably six  months, maybe you can just about pull itself, but really you want to be thinking,  about 12 months runway, that's the point where you're thinking, "Okay, maybe I need to  think about whether I raise money or whether I'm thinking about getting into profitability." Also,  if you get to six months and you're unsuccessful in raising money, you really don't  have a lot of time to turn this around to get to profitability for the  company to succeed.

Again, there's a really great essay on our blog that goes into  this in more detail.

Link down here, so you can read that at your leisure  and hopefully take that on board.

Okay.

In conclusion, most companies die because they run  out of money.

It's super easy not to run out of money just by looking  at a certain number of things.

Knowing your cash balance in your runway, understanding how  your expenses are going to increase, understanding that the ratio of revenue to employees is  a better metric than just the number of employees, and having a plan to get  to profitability because you should assume you're not going to raise any more money.

All  right.

Thank you very much.

A few minutes for questions.
Speaker 2:I've always thought the way you're saying it, that you should try to get profitability  on a shoestring, if possible.

But I've read articles which claim that you need being  profitable is bad somehow.

So from value, you should try and raise vast sums of  money and not being profitable, and get tight market share and go along those lines.

 What do you think of those claims and that's something that can be bought for?
Kirsty Nathoo:So the question is, how do you balance the two sides of, you should do  things on a shoe string and be profitable as early as possible versus you should  just throw money and get market share as fast as possible? I think it depends  on the stage of the company, as well.

In the early days, then probably being  careful with your money and making sure that you have a plan to get to  profitability is a good thing.

Just having a plan doesn't mean that you necessarily to  actually be doing it.

An example might be, maybe you're plowing all of your revenues  back into marketing in some description or rather, and knowing that you could actually slow  your ...

The way to reduce your expenses is to reduce your marketing, which might  slow your revenue a little bit, but it would conserve that cash to preserve the  runway, it's just a balancing act.

I mean, the other thing you have to bear  in mind is that, obviously the investors want you to spend money super fast.

They  want you to come back to them, cap in hand, with, "Please, please.

Give us  more money." There are some tensions there, but it's all about just being responsible with  it and giving yourself enough time and enough runway to be able to figure it  out.
Speaker 3:[inaudible] CFO again, and I'm just curious at what stage do you bring the CFO  on for a non-fintech company? Do you start with a part time CFO first, and  graduate to a proper CFO full time?
Kirsty Nathoo:Okay.

The question is when do you bring in a CFO? It's surprisingly later, actually.

 Even probably post series A, you probably don't need a full time CFO at that  point, and there's lots of services that do consulting CFOs and will do strategy or  help you to figure out your numbers to create a deck or whatever for raising  money.

A full time CFO is actually pretty late on.

Just to bear in mind  though, that the difference between a CFO and a bookkeeper, at least for the US,  is that generally the way that this works is the bookkeeper, you would have earlier.

 They're the people who are just going to get your numbers that are coming through  your bank statements into a balance sheet, into an income statement, into the accounting system,  so that providing the reports for that.

Then separately to that, you would hire a  CPA, an accountant, who would prepare the tax returns and file those for you each  year.

There's actually two different sets of people.

So a bookkeeper you would need earlier,  a CPA you need annually to do your tax returns, and then a CFO who's  going to oversee that and do more of the building our forecasts, building out budgets  and things like that are probably a little bit later on, as well.

Before that  is really the founders.

They should be doing it.
Speaker 4:[inaudible]
Speaker 5:Yeah.

My question is regarding the [inaudible] Do you suggest any financial projections tools or  any financial [inaudible] tools?
Kirsty Nathoo:So how can you calculate it? I mean, there are tools online.

Personally, I think  it's actually better to build it yourself, because I think it makes you think about  it in your mind.

Usually just doing good old spreadsheets, for me, works well.

But  certainly there are other ways that you can do it, and there's a lot of  services and a lot of startups.

We see a lot of startups applying to us  trying to make it easier to see forecasts and things.

Okay, maybe one more question,  and then we'll move on.

Let's get this side.
Speaker 6:We haven't found product market fit yet, [inaudible]
Kirsty Nathoo:You haven't found product market fit?
Speaker 6:Yeah.

[inaudible] product market fit yet [inaudible] for marketing our [inaudible]
Kirsty Nathoo:Oh, for investors? Are you raising seed stage money? Yeah.

Okay.

The question is, should  you provide forecasts in your deck if you haven't reached product market fit? The answer  is probably no.

Certainly, at the seed stage, if you're talking to professional investors or  experienced investors, they probably aren't really going to look or ask you for that number,  they'll ask you for things like, "So how big could this get, and what's the  total market size?" Questions like that.

But they're not going to be looking for here's  our monthly growth predictions.

Probably if you're being asked those kinds of questions from investors  and you're raising money at the seed stage, it probably means that those investors are  not actually that experienced in investing in early stage companies.

So that's a data point  for you to decide whether it's a good person to work with.

Certainly by the  time you get to series A however, you should have some plans.

But the point  of a series A is that you've got product market fit and that you have  more of an idea.

I mean, forecasts are always forecast.

You don't know for sure,  but yeah.

Okay.

I think we are up.

Thank you very much.

I'm doing an  AMA on Friday, so if there's questions that I didn't get to, then feel free  to drop them in there and I will answer as many as possible of those.

 Thank you.

(silence)
