# Tim Brady - Building Culture

Tim Brady:Good morning.

My name is Tim Brady.

I am a partner here at YC, a  group partner.

Which means I work with the companies during the batch closely.

I have  started three things prior, one of which was Yahoo back in 1994.

So a lot  of what I'm going to talk about today stems from that experience.

As Kevin said,  I want to talk about building culture.

How to think about it at this stage  of your company and why it's important.

Now, culture can be pretty broadly defined, so  let me be super clear on what I'm talking about.

Really to me, culture is  just behavior.

And company culture is that implicit set of behaviors inside of your company.

 They should inform your employees on how to behave.

I guess, when done right, they  should inform the employees inside of your company how to behave when it hasn't been  explicitly laid out for them.

And the good news, if you do it right, if  you get the right culture, the right behaviors will support a good business, and hopefully  a great business.

And over the course of your company, over the history of your  company, it will support that in a lot of intangible ways that are hard even  to describe, but that's why it's important.

That's how you should think about it at  this stage.

Don't over-complicate it.

Right? That's really it.

So you're probably asking yourselves, at  this stage of the company you have so many things on your plate, you're so  busy, it almost seems like a luxury to be thinking about culture.

Right? You're not  wrong to be asking that question.

And the reason is that when your company gets  going, these are three phases that you'll be going through as you build your company.

 All of you really are at this top stage that I call the idea stage,  right? Talking to customers, iterating the product, experimenting, iterating the product.

Hopefully you'll raise some  money at some point to allow you to continue to do that.

And at some  point in the future, you're going to reach product market fit, right? If you think  back on the product market fit talk that Michael gave a couple of weeks ago.

 And when you do that, hopefully you'll raise a whole lot more money and begin  scaling the company.

Now scaling the company almost always requires hiring a lot of people,  right? And the people that you have inside of the company prior to hiring a  lot of people are really your cultural DNA.

Those are the people that are going  to be involved in hiring and training that next wave of people.

So it's super  important that you get it right.

That's why it is subtitled kind of the first  20 employees that you get.

And there's no magic to the number 20, it's really  that set of employees that are in place when you begin scaling the company.

Because  again, those folks are going to be highly involved in hiring and training this next  wave.

So if you get it right, if those first set of employees embody kind  of the culture and the values that you want inside your company, you have a  much higher likelihood of building a strong and coherent culture.

The reverse is also true,  right? If you make mistakes, if you get the wrong types of people inside of  the company early on, they're going to be involved in hiring and training.

And those  mistakes are going to get propagated, and it'll be much harder later on to kind  of correct course and try to build a coherent company.

Right? So that's why it's  important to be thinking about now.

I know you have a lot on your plate  in starting this company, but what you need to do doesn't take a whole lot  of time.

For the most part, it's just some conversations with your co-founder.

And so  I came up with a list of six things that you can do now to  help you, or to help the likelihood of you building a strong and coherent culture.

 First one, be proud of the problem you're solving.

Kind of seems silly to say.

 But you need to, right? If you don't have the problem yourself, you need to  identify with the people that do have the problem, and you need to be really  proud of the fact that you're solving it for them, right? Because building, as I'm  sure you're going to, if you've heard already, and you'll continue to hear, building a  company's hard.

It's a long process, and there will be some really difficult times.

And  if you're not proud of what you're doing, it's really hard to maintain the level  of energy and enthusiasm you need to sustain the company.

Right? Sometimes where we see  founders go wrong is they choose an idea with their ego.

They choose an idea  because it sounds good to tell their friends at a party, right? And when times  get tough, it's really hard to maintain that level of energy.

And the reason energy,  enthusiasm, is important, not just for sustaining the company, but everyone around you will see  how you feel about the company, and to a large degree that will set the  tone for your culture.

A couple of batches back, we had a YC alum come  and tell his story.

He went through the YC program a few years back.

He  applied with four other guys with the idea of helping retailers liquidate their excess inventory.

 That was the idea they started with.

And they did all the right things.

Talked  to customers, iterated, experimented, and he raised some money, and he got to to search  for product market fit, and he continued to to search for product market fit.

Ultimately,  they had a good business for a little while, but they also ultimately ended up  in the business of makeup for teenage girls.

Right? They didn't identify with the problem.

 And when times got tough, they just didn't want to be there.

Right? They didn't  identify with their customers.

And he told the story of where the employees around him,  they actually came up to him and said, hey, it doesn't look like you're enjoying  what you're doing.

And ultimately they ended up shutting down the company.

Next.

When you  do find the right problem to solve, one that you're proud of, create a longterm  vision that others will follow.

It's much easier to create a great culture if people  who identify with the problem you're solving know you're solving it.

They'll raise their hand  and say, hey, I want to be part of what you're doing.

Right? You can  call it a North Star for the company.

And say it in a way that  will inspire people.

It should give purpose to the work you're doing.

It shouldn't describe  the work, but it should talk about the purpose of that work.

And let me  give you a couple of examples to illustrate what I mean.

Tesla.

To accelerate the  world's transition to sustainable energy.

Pretty inspiring, right? No mention of an electric vehicle.

You  know, if you said, oh, we're building the world's best electrical vehicle, that's good.

You'll  inspire a handful of engineers who implicitly understand kind of the technical challenges that come  with that.

But if you're going to build a big company, you need to attract  kind of a broad array of people.

This does that.

Another example, Microsoft's original.

A  computer on every desk in every home.

It's kind of laughable now, but in the  early eighties, this was crazy talk, right? Computers were only for businesses and hobbyists.

But  this vision, laid out by Bill Gates and Paul Allen, attracted the right type of  people to their company.

Right? The hobbyists that had the capability to help them build  the type of company they needed to build saw this and were excited about it.

 It attracted and allowed them to kind of build the type of culture that they  needed at Microsoft.

Last one.

One you're all familiar with.

Organize the world's information and  make it universally accessible and useful.

Again, no mention of the product.

Doesn't say we're  building a kick-ass search engine.

All right.

So once you're able to come up with  kind of an inspiring vision to attract the right people to your company, the next  thing you should do is have a conversation with your co-founder about the types of  values and behaviors you want to cultivate inside of your company.

Right? Ultimately, the purpose  of this at this stage in your company is to use as a filter for  the hiring process.

Right? It should be a short list, and at this stage it's  fine that it's informal.

If you're lucky enough to to move on and grow, like  ultimately, maybe this list becomes a more polished corporate values list.

This is probably the  seed of that.

But at this stage, it doesn't need to be polished, right? You  don't need to publish a blog post on it.

It's just a short list.

Less  than five things.

And this will help you during the hiring process to make sure  that you're letting the right type of people inside the company.

Right? This is in  addition to that skill list that you'll need.

You know, job description, the skills that  person needs.

This is above and beyond that.

So let me take you through a  couple of examples.

And I apologize, these are actually more corporate value lists.

They're a  little more polished.

Yours won't need to be this polished.

All right.

Spotify.

Innovative, collaborative,  sincere, passionate, and playful.

Right? You can see pretty clearly how you can use that  set of lists that this lists to begin screening potential employees.

Atlassian.

Right? This is  a little different, the way they make the list.

It doesn't have to be just  adjectives like the Spotify one was.

Open company, no bullshit.

Build with heart and balance.

 Don't fuck with the customer.

Play as a team.

And be the change you seek.

 Right? They said it a little different.

You can see how this came from a  conversation between co-founders, right? Like I don't want to work in an environment that's highly  political.

No bullshit.

Right? That translates into kind of a hiring filter of just like  if someone seems political in any way, let's not let them in the company, him  or her in the company.

So come up with this list.

Right? Again, a short  list.

What type of company do you want to build? What type of behaviors will  support the business you're building? And then create that list.

But don't let it just  be a piece of paper.

Right? Don't put it in a drawer and wait for  the marketing department to polish it a few years later.

You have to model that  behavior.

For better, for worse, the early employees will look to you for the cultural  cues, right? You can't say, do as I say, not as I do.

Right? You  have to walk the walk.

They will take their cues from you.

Four.

When thinking  about this list, to the extent you can, make sure it's externally focused.

It's much  better to build a culture that's focused on the customer than it is on how  you treat one another inside the company.

Look, your shortlist can have both.

But the  more important ones are having it externally focused.

Over the long haul, that will serve  you much, much better.

And let me give you an example of of what I  mean by this.

So, move fast and break things.

You've heard this right? Facebook.

This  is what I consider an internally focused thing.

If you're a project manager or an  engineer at Facebook trying to decide what to do next, this doesn't offer you a  whole lot of guidance, right? Think back to kind of the definition I gave of  company culture, right? It informs employees how to behave when it hasn't been explicitly laid  out.

If you're deciding what next product to build, this doesn't help at all.

It  just tells you to move fast, right? Shouldn't be a surprise when you look at  this that some of the privacy violations that they've been charged with have occurred at  Facebook, right? I don't think for a second anyone at Facebook set out to violate  anyone's privacy, but their culture certainly didn't help them, didn't give them the guide rails  on where to stop.

Right? Contrast that with kind of Google's early motto.

Don't be  evil.

Not particularly prescriptive necessarily, but it's outwardly focused, right? It lets the employees and  the world know, hey, we're, we're a force for good.

And when you think about  kind of that policy that Google has with its engineers, they're allowed to work 20%  of their time on these independent projects.

It's pretty impressive that you haven't heard of  any of those go astray.

Right? Pretty amazing, given the data they're sitting on.

Again,  outwardly focused, right? It gives some guide rails to the employees on how to behave.

 Next.

Have a conversation about diversity.

And I'm not just talking about ethnic and gender  diversity here.

I'm talking about a diversity of opinions.

Can you create a culture where  people with diametrically opposed opinions, strongly held, can coexist? Can you foster conversations that are  loud, but then people walk away and are, okay? How important is that to your  business? There's plenty of research out there that suggests that companies that are able to  foster this type of environment, have a diverse environment, that isn't always agreeable, tend to  be more creative.

They tend to be better problem solvers.

And the reason I put  this up there is it's really hard, because most of the advice when you get  going, when you're hiring the first set of employees is to, hey, tap your Rolodex,  talk to friends, talk to former colleagues, right? Those people you know whether or not  they're good engineers, you know whether or not they embody the values that you're trying  to put into your company.

They're known quantities.

And at that stage it's a good  thing.

But there are also probably a lot like you, right? And you can find  pretty quickly that you've built a pretty homogeneous environment in trying to hire too quickly.

 So have this conversation.

How important is it to you, to your company, to have  diversity? Because if you think you're going to wake up at a hundred employees and  then start a diversity program, you're fooling yourself.

It's way too hard.

It's too late  by then.

So have that conversation.

It's tough.

I don't have the right answers on  what that looks like.

But have it, it's important.

So once you've done all that,  had those conversations, put a hiring plan in place.

Right? Don't just let it happen.

 From the very first employee, make sure you're following a process.

There's a ton of  stuff online about hiring processes beyond the scope of this talk, but consider all those  conversations you had with your co-founder, the type of values you're trying to instill in  the company, and the type of diversity you want, and make sure that's part of  the process from day one.

Right? And make sure you assess whether it's working, especially  the early employees.

Right? After you hire your first couple of people, make sure you  get back together with your co-founder a month or two after and discuss whether it  did what it should have.

Did it filter the right way? Do you have the  right type of people in your company at this point? And if it didn't work  well, improve it.

Plan on evolving it.

Right? You want it tested by the time  you get to the point where you have to scale fast.

Right? You want a  process that you know works by then.

So that's it.

Right? Again, not too early.

 You have a ton on your plate.

And, again, what I've given you, hopefully, are  just a few simple things that aren't too time consuming.

Just conversations you can have,  kind of thought experiments, with your co-founder that can help kind of build a solid  foundation for building a culture later on.

Thanks everyone.
