# Dalton Caldwell - All About Pivoting

Dalton Caldwell:How's everybody doing? I'm Dalton.

I'm a partner at Y Combinator.

In addition, I'm the  Head of Admissions, which is our selection process for the companies that get into YC.

 I'm here to talk about pivoting.

Yeah, let's talk all about pivoting.

Cool.

All right.

 Here's some stuff we're going to cover.

What the heck is a pivot, why you  should pivot, when you should pivot, and evaluating ideas to pivot to.

So we're going  to try to cover all the bases here, all right? Let's talk about the term  pivot.

This is one of those terms that if I'm in a cafe and I  hear someone talking about pivoting, I roll my eyes because it was one of those  words that I associate with annoying startup people.

And so let's just explain what we  mean here.

It just means changing your idea.

That's all it means.

And technically, if  we want to be really technical, I would call a true pivot where it's like  a real company and you have lots of users and you've raised money and you're  like, "We're going to shut this thing down and do something different." So the most  famous example is Slack.

They raised money and had like a hundred employees for this  video game called Glitch.

I was a beta user and then one day they just  shut it down and like did something crazy.

I would call that a pivot.

I  think that's a valid use of it.

Probably what most of the folks here are  doing, I interchangeably call it pivoting, but you should just call it changing your idea.

 It should feel really lightweight.

When you're at the earliest stages of your company, especially  prelaunch or very near after launch, changing your ideas constantly is kind of the norm  and I wouldn't think that this is some huge thing.

It should feel lightweight and  frankly if you're not in a state where you're rapidly changing ideas or assumptions over  and over and over again in quick succession, you are likely doing it wrong.

You  are likely moving too slow.

And so this is just like part of it, change  your idea constantly, trying to find exactly the right version of your idea is something  you should be doing in the beginning.

Let's talk about why you should pivot.

So  the main reason I would argue is opportunity cost and the definition of opportunity cost  is the loss of potential gain from other alternatives where one alternative is chosen.

So  in other words, you can only really work on one thing at a time.

Sometimes  people try to violate that rule, but that's a whole different topic.

And so by  working on something that's not working and you have evidence that it's not working, you  are taking opportunity costs to not be doing something else.

It's as simple as that.

 Right? I don't know.

I tried to write some pseudo-code here for you about, it's  a kind of a joke, but like how all things are working divided by the  number of months of concerted fulltime effort.

If that number is less than excitement to  work on something else plus confidence you can find something better, you should pivot.

And  so the key thing to, if you look at this equation, like what am I  really trying to say, it's that if you've worked on something for months and months  and months and months and it's not happening, that's a pretty good signal, right? That's  what drives this equation that I put here the most is the number of months  you worked on something and it's not working.

And so if you're throwing good money  after bad, good time after bad and it's not happening for you, that is a  pretty darn good signal.

But if it's really, really, really early and you've only been  working on something a couple of weeks, it's less obvious.

Let's give you some good  reasons to pivot.

I hate working on it.

All right.

It's not growing.

It's just  not working.

I keep doing the thing and nothing is happening.

I'm not a good  fit to be working on this idea, like the more you learn about this, the  more you realize that you are just not the right person for the idea.

Another  one is I'm relying on an external factor outside of my control to make my  startup take off.

So a couple of examples of that are like relying on mainstream  virtual reality headset adoption.

That's a good one.

You know, like, "Any day now the  new Facebook thing's going to take off and that's when my VR app's going to  take off." Or like relying on mainstream crypto adoption, things like that.

Those are totally  out of your control and if you're just sitting here hoping someone else does something  good and then your startup will work, man, you should definitely pivot.

Another one is  just where you're out of ideas on how to make the thing work.

You've thrown  everything against the wall to make your current idea work and you're actually kind of  out of ideas.

That's usually a sign you should pivot.

Good reasons to not pivot.

 You're trying to run away from doing hard work.

Sometimes you see people where they  build a product and right when it gets to sales time, they pivot and they  do that over and over again.

That's probably not a good reason to pivot, it's  just someone trying to dodge the sales part.

So watch out for that.

Also another  reason not to pivot is if you're the type of person that changes their idea  over and over and over and over again, like chronically, and you're detecting yourself doing  that.

It's good to actually follow something through all the way, so you just want  to watch out for that happening.

Also, a good reason not to pivot is that  you just hear there's some hot new thing and you want to pivot because you  read a TechCrunch article because someone raised money for a hot new thing.

That's not  a great reason to pivot.

Let me give you some reasons on why people take  too long to pivot and the reason I mention this is I would argue on  average, most people take too long to pivot, right? I think that's usually ...

Like  if I had to put people in buckets, more people take too long than the  reverse.

And so why do they take too long? Loss aversion, when you feel like  you've invested in something, you have a really hard time letting go of it, and  that's loss aversion.

You can research this.

Have a little bit of traction, like you  have a few users or one customer, you're like, "Maybe it'll work." That will make  you not pivot and that's rough.

Another thing is like people are very polite in  the world and they have a hard time telling you the truth that they don't  like the thing that you're working on.

And so a lot of founders get confused  about politeness and getting that confused with traction.

And so you're never going to really,  I mean maybe, I shouldn't say never, most likely you're not going to have people  being like, "Your idea is horrible, give up now.

I will never be a customer."  They're not going to tell you that to your face, be like, "Oh this is  great.

Maybe if you add few more features and come back we'll take a look  at it." Right? Oh that's dangerous, because you can end up doing that iteratively over  and over and over again for like years and never actually get customers.

So watch  out for politeness and getting politeness confused with traction.

Another one is fear of admitting  weakness or defeat.

If you pivot, you're giving up in some way.

Another one is  putting blame on why things aren't working on customers or investors.

So this is where  you're like, "I'm not wrong.

The world is wrong.

No one gets this.

This is  way ahead of its time." Things like that are not a great sign, and usually  people realize that maybe it is kind of on them versus on the external world,  but it takes a long time to get there.

And then finally there's a lot  of inspirational stuff out there that's just like if you just believe hard enough and  keep going, you'll eventually be recognized and everything will be great.

And so there's a  lot of those inspirational messages out there and that can kind of be counterproductive.

I  don't know if this is super legible, but basically this is where I talk about  a little bit of traction thing.

I call it the Uncanny Valley of product market  fit.

And you know what's weird, I noticed this as a YC partner, someone that  gets into YC with a idea that's just a total fail, like immediately, is actually  at a huge advantage than someone that has a little bit of traction.

Isn't that  weird? Like a total fail, the founders can declare bankruptcy on the idea immediately and  just work on other stuff with no regrets and no second guessing, "Oh, should I  pivot?" They're like, "Wow, that was really bad," and having that freedom to immediately throw  off the old idea and work on a new one is actually a weird advantage.

 Isn't that counterintuitive? And so you just want to really watch out for a little  bit of traction because I've seen that be a trap that capture a lot of  really talented people for long periods of time.

And then let's just talk about the  anecdotes.

So anecdotes about stories of people that just kept doing what they were doing  and it didn't work, and then five years later, it was great.

I think those  are cool and they're inspirational and I like them and they're all true, they're anecdotes.

 But it's kind of like anecdotes about people that play the lottery every day for  five years and then they won the lottery and now they're really happy and that's  super cool, but that is not actionable for you, right? There's nothing you can do  with this anecdote about someone that just kept believing strong enough.

I would much rather  give people advice to play the statistics of this and to take accountability for their  own actions in the world than just hope and dream that you might be one  of the anecdotes too.

And so if you decide to pivot or don't decide to  pivot, just remember you decide.

It's your life, and if it works out good or  bad, that's on you.

And so often I get founders that want to push this  decision on me as a YC partner or other authority figures about, "Is this idea  of working or not? When should I know when to give up?" And ultimately all  we can do is give you guidance.

But this is exactly in the class of  problems that is on the founder and never something you should look to an authority  figure to tell you how to decide.

Product market fit.

I'm sure, you know, we're  talking about this a lot, it's been discussed a lot in startup school and it's  because it is so important.

Most people will never get it.

Probably most people watching  this don't have it even if they think they do, and you know you have  it when growth is not your biggest problem, it's other stuff.

And one good reason  to pivot is you just get more shots on goal to try to get this  elusive thing, right? Like if you made something and you launched it and it's like,  "Meh, not really working," a dang good reason to pivot is you get another roll  of the dice, you get another shot.

And so I've just seen people that use  these opportunities really well.

It's much easier to be lucky when you get half a  dozen shots on goal than one, right? And so if we're just playing the statistics  of how do I get product market fit, taking several high quality shots, notice I  say high quality, you can't just constantly pivot through stuff and then launch it, but  if you do a full awesome product iteration of making something, completing it, shipping it,  giving it to people, following all the advice you're looking here, and you can give  yourself multiple of those shots, I would argue you are creating luck for yourself and  the odds that you actually hit something that works are much higher than someone that  only ever takes one shot.

Okay, let's talk about how to find a better idea.

 Here's the advice that I give people during the batch when they are looking for  an idea to pivot to.

Find something that you're more excited about and that makes  you more optimistic about the world and just generally more excited to wake up in  the morning and work on the thing and not less excited.

And there's a corollary  here and this, I think, is counterintuitive.

Often choosing what is perceived as a harder  idea, is good.

And so I see a lot of people where they're like working  on some ad network ad tech thing to affiliate something ad targeting, I don't know,  those never work and it's because they're not inspirational and no one cares.

And so  when you see people go from that into something that's really, really exciting, right, like,  "Oh, I want to help small business owners do X," or I had a company  in this last batch and they started with this ad tech thing that they were  all very bored with and they pivoted to Robin Hood for India, and the moment  they pivoted to that, the founders lit up and every conversation I had with them,  they were like so excited about their idea and it was contagious talking to them.

 And it was almost like a different ...

Like the amount of change, it was  the same founders, but what changed is they found an idea that was real, that  they were excited about, and not just some like boring ad tech crap.

No one  cares about that stuff.

Okay.

So if you're doing something that seems like a good  startup idea because you read in TechCrunch people raise money for it, but it's not  inspiring to you and you're like, "Man, this is pretty lame," you probably want to  find something that's more exciting to you.

Another thing to do on finding a better  idea is make an honest assessment of what you're good and bad at.

This is  hard, but you want to be really self aware of what you're good and bad  at and play to those strengths.

And another thing here for finding a good idea,  especially if it's a pivot, find something that you can very quickly build and validate  and not something that takes like a year or two of R&D.

If you pivot  from one thing that's impossible to ship into another thing that's impossible to ship, not  good.

Ideally you find something that's way easier to ship, like really fast, highly recommended.

 Quick note here, caveat.

It's totally okay to work an idea where you're not going  to raise venture capital.

All good.

Most businesses in the world don't require venture capital.

 And so if what you're doing is consuming lots of content on how to start  a company like this and it's all kind of like venture capital focused stuff and  you're not going to do something that raises venture capital, you can kind of get  blown off course idea wise.

And so just be self aware about this and realize  that if you do want to raise venture capital, the idea does matter a lot  and there's a constant recurring theme I see is people that are trying to raise  money for something that is definitely not venture capital fundable and they get really frustrated.

 Everyone gets frustrated with that.

It doesn't make sense for all businesses, and so just  be self aware of this when you're choosing an idea of like, is this something  that at least hypothetically is VC fundable? Just to give you some rule of thumb,  well what does that mean? I don't think there's a guidebook for what venture scale  means, but here's some rules of thumb.

Can I imagine this business generating hundreds of  millions or billions in net revenue per year? All right, that sounds venture capital fundable.

 Can I imagine the revenue growth to get to those numbers to happen in less  than 10 years or five years? Can this happen really fast? Can I imagine this  thing that I'm doing is a publicly traded company someday? Can I picture it? Can  I visualize it? Kevin's first lecture talks about this but these are all things like  if you just can't see any of these, that's not a great sign.

And other  key properties is usually technology is a key component and usually the founders build the  technology at least in the early days for something to be VC fundable.

You want  to see really high margins, not for everything, but again, just a rule of thumb.

 Software margins, you know 80% gross margins, 70% gross margins, really high margins that some  of you want to see.

And then, it's funny, I think a lot of people  learn about fundraising from Shark Tank and I don't think a lot of that stuff  is venture fundable just in case you were wondering.

It's fundable for people that want  to put product stuff together, but I think you'd have a hard time raising money  from venture capitalists for the majority of that stuff.

But hey, like I said earlier,  it's your call, it's your dream, so figure it out.

When's the best time to  pivot? As soon as these things happen.

You've launched and trying to get users for  weeks or months and you feel hopeless.

It feels hopeless.

You should probably pivot.

When  the idea is impossible to get started with.

Like, "Cool, once we raise $100 million,  then we will build a prototype." You should definitely pivot if you're one of those  people because unless you have $100 million, you are in a chicken and egg unsolvable  issue.

And here's another one.

You know in your heart it's not going to work.

 A lot of founders know secretly that their thing isn't working, but they want to  keep up with this front to everyone in the world that it is working and  they think they can fool people into funding them or working with them.

If you  can't convince yourself and you know this isn't really working, man, is that a good  time to pivot, right? Like you know more than anyone else about your business, so  you've got to listen to yourself and it's sometimes not stuff you want to hear  from yourself.

Okay, let's talk about other pivotty stuff.

If you pivot over and over  and over again, it causes whiplash.

Whiplash is very bad because it causes founders to  give up and not want to work on this anymore and that actually kills the  company.

Weirdly, it's more deadly to your company to get whiplash and get sad then  to work on a bad idea, because if you're having fun working on a bad  idea, you won't give up and then conceivably you can maybe make it work.

If  you get really sad and hate your life while you're working on your startup, you  will definitely not succeed and it's because you will give up.

And so this is  weird, like it's kind of better to work on an idea that's not the best  one if you're really having fun.

And then you just want to be in a  happy medium.

Some founders pivot way too much and they'll probably watch this lecture and  then pivot once a day for six weeks.

Don't do that.

And some people just  work on the same idea for five years and it's not working and they just  are really [inaudible] about it.

Just find a happy medium like everything else in life.

 Another thing is it's really hard to have employees and be pivoting, so don't do  it.

It just makes it slower and it makes them really sad and so trying  to scale up a team and taking all the advice here about how to scale  a team while you don't even know what your idea is or you think you're  going to change your idea, definitely not best practices.

It only slows you down.

I  would only add people to the team after you know your idea is working and  you have confidence, otherwise it's just all downside.

Okay, let's go to a different thing  here.

I made this up for this lecture and I came up with a subjective  notion of a quality score, just to give you a few criteria to evaluate an  idea.

Okay.

And so what I did is there's four key things that I think  you could use to evaluate the quality of an idea and you could give them  a 1 to 10 and then you average those together to give an overall quality  score.

Okay.

So let me just go into detail on these.

How big of an  idea it seems to be, and again, this is the stuff I talked about earlier.

 Is this an obvious publicly traded company? Like I don't know, Tesla, hey, it's a  new car company, there's lots of publicly traded car companies.

That seems pretty big.

A  new bank.

There's lots of banks that are publicly traded.

That seems pretty big.

The  opposite of the spectrum is like, I don't know, a Subway.

"I'm going to buy  a Subway franchise," you know? That's the other end of the spectrum.

Or like, "Oh,  I'm going to import some stuff and sell it on eBay." Probably a little less  obvious how it's big.

The second one, founder market fit, is really, really key.

So  again, a 10 out of 10 would be, "Hey, I was on the self driving  car team when I was an undergrad and then I worked on self driving cars  my whole career and so now I'm going to do a self driving car startup."  Yeah, that's a 10 out of 10.

A 0 out of 10 is like, "I'm  going to do some kind of advanced AI startup and I don't know how to  program." That's a 0 out of 10 right there.

Don't recommend that.

How easy is  it to get started on the idea is actually, I think, undersold.

I don't know  if people realize, this is actually really key, is ideas that are easy to start  are highly recommended and there are so many really good ideas out there that never  work because the founders can't figure out how to get started and then someone in  the future does the same idea and has a much better way to get started  and then they win.

And then people get bitter because they're like, "I had that  idea." So I would argue finding an idea that's easy to get started with is  just as important as the idea itself.

And finally, early market feedback from customers and  this just means do people just want it immediately in sales, straightforward, or is it  just impossible? So let me give you some examples of companies that I worked with  and advised at YC that you may or may not have heard of.

Brex is  one.

They're in YC Winter '17, and I funded them to do a different idea,  and talked to them a lot during their pivot, and they pivoted during the batch.

 They got product market fit pretty quickly and they have now raised hundreds of millions  and are worth billions in two years.

So it's like one of those rare outlier  stories.

I'm not saying this is common, but holy cow, I got a front row  seat to watching kind of the most epic pivot of all time, I think.

Maybe  there's other ones, but I was like, "Wow, that really worked." So let's talk about  the before and after.

Here was what they started with.

They had this idea for  a new VR hardware headset that you would use to do work or something.

Here's  the scores I just put in, I put these in now, I didn't do these  at the time.

How big does it seem? Yeah, it seems like medium big, like  VR headsets, there's no publicly traded ones, but that seems like the future, right? Founder  market fit, I give a 1 out of 10.

These guys knew nothing about hardware  or optics or any of the things associated.

They were just FinTech software folks so  they had literally no idea what they were doing, and they were very up front  about that.

How easy it was to get started, that's only a two, and the  reason is they had to hire hardware people to build a prototype, not a good  sign.

They needed millions of dollars to build a prototype, not a good sign.

And  it would take like years and years and years of manufacturing.

So this was pretty  bad.

And then finally, early market feedback, they went and talked to people and they're  like, "Do you want to use this?" And no one wanted to use it.

So  this was bad.

Okay.

So overall score, 2 and a half out of 10.

Okay,  post pivot.

Credit card for startups.

That seemed pretty big.

There's tons of publicly traded  comps of like FinTech companies.

You know, again, even in startup land, there's Square, there's  Stripe, I mean there's lots of examples of that.

So I'd give that a 10  out of 10, I did at the time.

Founder market fit, 10 out of 10.

 The reason is they had started a FinTech company earlier in Brazil and it was  successful and they sold it for like $20 or $30 million.

So they knew exactly  what they were doing and they could write all the code themselves and they could  ship it themselves and they had all these existing relationships.

Man, is that such a  better fit.

How easy it was to get started, I'm only giving this a 3  out of 10 because they actually ...

It's hard to launch a new credit card  product.

This is one where if you don't have founder market fit, I would not  necessarily try this at home.

There was something about the founder market fit that made  it easy.

And then finally the early market feedback I'm giving 8 out of 10  and it's because in the batch they were like, "Hey, do you have a credit  card? Do you want to be a customer?" And people were like, "Yes." And that  was the whole sales process.

I witnessed it multiple times.

So if that's your sales  process, good.

It's like a three sentence sales process and people say "Yes, that is  good." Let's talk about Retool.

They're Winter '17 and they're a really good SaaS company  and honestly everyone should check it out and maybe use it.

It's a tool to  build internal tools.

It's awesome.

I'm encouraging all the YC startups use this to build  internal management pages.

It's actually like a really great product.

So that's what Retool is.

 You should look at it.

Pre pivot was Venmo for the UK.

How big it  seems, seems pretty big, like Venmo is big.

Founder market fit, 3 out of 10,  they didn't really know anything about FinTech, but they managed to get a launch so  there was something there.

How easy it was to get started, I'm giving that a  7 out of 10, it's because they already launched, they'd already had a bunch of  users then.

So that was pretty impressive.

Early market feedback though was only 3 out  of 10 and the reason is no one wanted to pay and they were losing  money on every transaction.

So there's all these reasons that this wasn't really working and  so they decided to pivot even though this is an example of the insidious sort  of traction, right? They had enough traction that it was like hard to decide to  give up on this because they had users and it was kind of working.

So  that was a tricky one.

Anyway, Retool post pivot is the no-code internal tools builder.

 I think it seems like a 10 out of 10 because 80% of all software  built is for internal consumption, not external consumption, like in big companies, and so that  seems like a big market to me.

Founder market fit, 10 out of 10.

One  of the founders had made something like this at his college internship and so he  had a very good idea of what the product should be and had relevant to  it.

It was easy to get started.

They built it in two weeks and got  their first customers.

Great.

And early market feedback only giving a 5 out of 10.

 People were interested in it, but they weren't sure they wanted to trust some new  startup to this thing, so this one did not fly off the proverbial shelves.

They  managed to get some users but it was not immediate obvious product market fit.

They  had to build it out a bit.

So that was a great pivot.

Next we  got Magic.

They were in Winter '15, they pivoted during the batch, and what's great  about them is they built a profitable and sustainable company.

Yay.

I wish we all  could do that, right? How did they do it? They started off with this idea  for a blood pressure coach where there was an app and you enter your blood  pressure and it would tell you how to lower your blood pressure.

It didn't seem  like a huge idea, 2 out of 10.

Founder market fit, they didn't know anything  about health whatsoever or much along those lines, so that's probably just a 2 out  of 10.

How easy it was to get started, 8 out of 10 because they  built the app really quickly and they got users really quickly and they followed all  the advice.

Good for them.

And then the early market feedback was like not good.

 Everyone was really polite and no one used the dang thing.

Like their usage was  just horrible.

So this one was again was kind of obvious they should pivot.

They  realized it on their own pretty quickly.

And then they built a bunch of prototypes.

 They actually built the Magic prototype in a weekend.

No joke.

This is actually true.

 A not an exaggeration.

And they put it on Hacker News and it went to  number one and got like 2000 upvotes and it blew up overnight.

I don't know  if anyone remembers this thing, but it went like crazy viral and they got all  this press, like it was the most ...

It was an example of a shots  on goal thing I was talking about earlier where they had like five ideas and  there's no way I would've known or they would've known that this would be the  thing that would capture the world's imagination.

But it did.

And so not obvious founder  market fit on this one either, but it was very easy to get started, it  got really good early market feedback, and it seems pretty big.

So that was great.

 It also inadvertently inspired tons and tons of clones.

So I would argue that anyone  that's doing chatbot stuff, it's sort of like a direct descendant about when this thing  blew up and everyone was like, "Oh chatbots are the future," was sort of like  second order effects from this going so crazy viral and inspiring so many people.

Segment,  they're in YC Summer '11.

They pivoted a bunch of times including years after the  batch.

It took them a really long time to get it going.

They didn't even  pivot during the batch and now they're worth billions and it's a really good company.

 It's a top data infrastructure company.

So pre pivot, they had this thing that was  a classroom feedback tool where you would give it to students in a classroom and  they could say if they were lost or not I think was what the feature  was.

So if you were confused, you would push a button and it would tell  the professor.

Okay, didn't seem huge in my opinion.

Founder market fit, well they were  students and they were young, so I'd give that like a 5 out of 10.

 They weren't experts on education, but they understood the audience.

It was easy to get  started.

They built it really fast.

And the early market feedback was actually decent where  professors liked it and they got a bunch of schools to adopt this thing.

So  their sales were successful, but ultimately this was not, you know, it took them on  the order of years to discard this one.

And yeah, it's good that they pivoted  because now they're doing ...

Segment again, which everyone should use, it's a data collection  tool.

That one did not seem obviously big.

Have anyone here use Segment? It's this  JavaScript thing you put on your page and it connects to other tools.

It was  less obvious how that would be a publicly traded company at the time, but the  founder market fit was great because they built so much analytics stuff.

They were world  experts on analytics already when they built it.

It was easy to get started because  they literally built this thing and open sourced it and gave it away for free  and people begged for them to support it.

Like, the market begged for this product  to exist.

They didn't think this was the company.

They just had this thing on  GitHub and so many people were obsessed with this thing that they built.

They're like,  "Well, I guess the market is telling us we should make this the company," and  they did it.

So that I would say is easy to get started and really  good market feedback, you know, with the market's begging for something, and that you don't  even think it's good and they have to convince you it's good, that's a pretty  good sign.

And so that was a good pivot.

Okay.

In summary, I tried to  give you those examples just to give you real, real, real life examples of stuff  that I personally worked on just to show the before and after and how these  decisions are really made.

And so changing our idea is part of a startup.

The  sooner the better because of the opportunity cost and the shots on goal type of  stuff.

And when you're considering changing your ideas, especially the early stages, it shouldn't feel  like a big deal.

You should probably do it all the time, and following best  practices is recommended.

Hopefully I gave you some good pointers on what those best practices  are.

But if you are really scientific about this, you can dramatically increase the odds  that your startup will work.

Great.

That's it for me.

Thanks.

All right, we're going  to do some questions.

Yeah.

All right.
Speaker 2:How important are barriers to entry when you're considering pivoting and starting a different direction?
Dalton Caldwell:How important are barriers to entry? I would put that under the variable around founder  excitement.

And so if you, yourself, are like in your heart, "I'm going to build  this thing," and everyone's going to copy it and there's no barrier to entry, that's  a good sign it may not be great, but again, in the case of Magic  or many of these others, there is basically no barrier to entry other than execution.

 But if you are really worried about the idea, even at inception time, that's probably  a good signal you want to think about it.

Does that make sense? So it's  really the in the eye of the beholder of the founder, if that's the thing  they're most worried about versus not that worried about.
Speaker 2:Okay, thank you.
Speaker 3:So, thanks Dalton for the talk.

So, [inaudible] those pre pivot type [inaudible 00:00:28:24]?
Dalton Caldwell:Yeah.

So, in the case of Brex, they'd built a really successful company before and  they were very ambitious and so I just had lots of confidence.

Even they weren't  really sure that that was the right idea for them.

They clearly had the technical  skills on that.

I think the other example is the same with Magic.

They built  a product, they launched it, they had early traction, they had great skills on the  team, and Retool, they shipped a pretty popular app in the UK that had tens  of thousands of users.

You know, they had something.

And so all of those, they  kind of had a thing that was in a decent state and there was something  really exciting about it and that was the major reason why.

And I think that's  pretty consistent with all the advice you're getting here, right? Like if you really make  something and give it to people and you have all the right stuff, people will  take a chance on things.

Let me go a different part of the room.

Yeah.
Speaker 4:All right.

[inaudible 00:29:20].

How do you deal with the situation when the founder thinks  that it's time to pivot but the team doesn't think it is?
Dalton Caldwell:Okay, the question is how do you deal with when the founder thinks it's time  to pivot and team doesn't? So this is actually one of those things why it's  bad to have a team this early is because you will create bad morale issues  if you pivot with a team, especially a large team.

And it's because they were  hired to do a job.

If you're a team member and you're working somewhere, you're  working at Slack and you're making a video game, and they're like, "Hey, just kidding  and we're going to do this other thing." And you're like, "What the ...

Like  what?" People have a career, they have a goal, they're not thinking the way a  founder thinks.

And so imagine, have you ever worked somewhere where they pivoted? It's pretty  lame, so putting people through that is rough.

If you want to try to retain  these people, you want to really reason with them and listen to them.

But ultimately  someone could be like, "I signed up for project X and you want to do  project Y," it may end up that you need to part ways and it's no  fault, it's just a lot of times people join a company for a mission or  an idea and if you change the idea it's really easy for the employees to  be like, "I'm not interested in this." Over there.
Speaker 5:Okay, so how can we decide in the initial phase how big the market is?  Like [inaudible 00:30:38], maybe because [inaudible] started they have the idea that it is going  to [inaudible 00:30:45]?
Dalton Caldwell:So how do you know how big something is? I tried to give you some  examples but I think that you don't have to overthink it.

If people will give  you lots of money for it quickly and easily, and it's very obvious how you  make lots of money quickly, that's usually a good sign.

I don't think looking up  Gartner studies or stuff like that is a good use of your time.

But if  it's really obvious how you can go to get lots of revenue really fast without  convoluted ideas, that's a good sign.

Versus if you're just doing something that it's hard  to imagine someone will ever pay for or you're just going to have to lose  hundreds of millions of dollars or raise hundreds of million dollars, that's usually a sign  it's going to be rough.

And so it's kind of on you, I guess, is  what I'm trying to say.

Yeah.

Let's do you, blue.

Yeah.

What's up?
Speaker 6:So you mentioned about not having enough traction and too much [inaudible] is better than  no traction versus a little bit traction.

And so what is that little bit that  you should [inaudible] to even know you had that [inaudible 00:31:48]?
Dalton Caldwell:Okay.

What is the kind of little bit of traction you should avoid? It's basically  where you're either flat, like you get some early users of some sort, or customers  of some sort, and then it's sort of flatlined and you feel like you're pushing  a boulder up hill and no matter what you do, you're still flatline and the  thing's not working.

Like you feel like you're putting in tons and tons of effort  and there's just not much feedback or pay off that things are getting easier, if  anything they might be getting harder.

This is super subjective stuff, I admit that, but  it's very obvious when you talk to a founder in office hours when they don't  have product market fit, it's because they're exasperated that no matter what they try and  they're trying everything, it's just not working and so flatline is a good way to  detect that, is if your overall growth is flatlined.

Yeah.

In the back.
Speaker 7:You said in your introduction, you are the head of admissions.

We are interested in  applying for the main school.

We are [inaudible] enterprise pre launch.

What should we be  focusing on for the next [inaudible 00:32:51]? I think the deadline is September 25th.
Dalton Caldwell:Okay.

What should we focus on for applying to YC and we're pre launch.

You  know, we don't need to get in a whole thing here, but you should not  be pre launch.

That's a great way to demonstrate that you are ...

Again, even  if you need to change your idea that demonstrates competence, like the act of launching  and going through the process alone demonstrates really good stuff.

Even if you end up  needing to change your idea.

The toughest thing is if there's, yeah, if it's prelaunch.

 Yes?
Speaker 8:I'm curious about app.net, and like two parts.

One is what was your thinking behind  shutting down as opposed to pivoting and two, do you think the timing was just  off? Because a lot of crypto networks right now are launching something similar where there's  a community effort to build something.
Dalton Caldwell:Yeah.

Question was about one of my companies, I guess I didn't get into this  ...

I probably pivoted personally seven or eight times and I've done a lot of  things at my startups and so he had a specific question about one of them.

 I would say for the app.net use case, I did not enjoy working on it  anymore.

Like honest to God, that's exactly the advice I just gave here.

I was  not enjoying myself and so I'm not sure what to say about the market, that's  a long conversation, but to follow my own advice, I lost enthusiasm and excitement that  that was a good use of my time.

And so that was how I made  my decision.

Yes?
Speaker 9:So Kevin talked about SISP, Solution in Search of a Problem course lecture, and we're  in a situation where we worked on something for a year and we feel that  it can be used for a different problem, right? It works really well for a  different problem, so it is kind of in that zone, a solution in search of  a problem, so would you count that as a pivot or, I mean-
Dalton Caldwell:Yes.

Okay.

So, we built this thing for a year and it's not taking off,  but we realize there might be a different market to sell it to.

And so  my answer would be, can you test this really fast? And so this is what  always I tell people when they have these forks in the road, is if you  can find a way to test this other market in like a week or two  or three weeks, heck yeah.

But if it's like, "Well we need to spend another  year on this with no market feedback whatsoever," that sounds rough.

And so especially if  you put lots of time into something, look for ways to very quickly validate or  test it or get customers because my guess is you built a lot of stuff  and hopefully you can get quick market feedback that you can get customers fast in  this new market.

Yeah, go ahead.
Speaker 10:Let me just add one thing to that.

So Solution in Search of a Problem,  this is a concept of avoiding this when you're first starting the company and so  you don't want to be building something without having a user or a problem in  mind because it makes it much more difficult when you're starting your startup.

If you  already have the thing built, then the advice is not to be like, 'Oh, I'm  like, I don't have a problem that I've identified, therefore I should abandon all the  work that I've done." And so like those are independent things.

And so once you  realize that you're in that situation, you're like, "Oh that's going to be difficult," the  question is like, "Oh, do I need a pivot, do I need to change, or  am I going to eventually find a good fit for that problem?" So the whole  thing is SISP just makes it much more difficult for you.

So you're in this  situation and the question is basically like, "Hey, you should probably pivot into wherever the  growth you may find."
Dalton Caldwell:I think last question, what's up?
Speaker 11:Is there a dividing line between fast and not fast?
Dalton Caldwell:Yes.

Question, is there a dividing line between fast and not fast? This is one  of those interesting subjective things where someone ...

There's like anecdotes of people that go  off and spend five years building stuff in a vacuum and those are great.

I  put that in the anecdote session I gave earlier that sometimes people do build things  in a vacuum for five years and it's a great idea.

Hooray.

But in general,  I consider fast or not fast for, I think it's context dependent.

If you're doing  like a biotech then it might be months or years, but if you're just doing  something that's pure software and you could build pretty quickly and get users pretty quickly,  you want to see your iteration cycle on the order of weeks, like major progress  on the order of weeks, if not months.

Definitely weeks.

And if your iteration cycle  to try a new idea and test it out or launch a version or go  get a bunch of customer feedback is on the order of months or longer, that's  probably too slow.

And again, I know this is tricky.

Everyone always pushes me and  they're like, "Well what's the actual metric?" It's just super context dependent, right? And this  is why I try to give you concrete examples.

All those companies had different cycles.

 In the case of Magic, that was a really fast cycle.

It was literally days  to go through that pivot iteration.

In the case of Brex, that was months.

And  so I think it really depends on the idea.
Speaker 11:For software, less than 10 weeks, is that a good rule of thumb?
Dalton Caldwell:Yeah.

I think for software, less than 10 weeks, at least to feel like you've  made major progress and you've learned a lot.

This is a question I ask people  a lot.

What have you learned? And if you can't articulate that you're still learning  things constantly and you're reassessing some of the assumptions you made and changing them, that's  a good sign you're not moving fast enough.

You should be constantly learning new stuff.

 Cool.

Cool.

Thanks everybody.
