# Kevin Hale - How to Improve Conversion Rates

Kevin Hale:So this presentation on improving conversion rates, it's designed to mostly focus on like landing  pages.

But all of the principles and ideas that I'll talk about in this talk  actually can help you improve the conversion rates of almost anything, any user interface.

So  keep that in mind.

This is a typical example, conversion rate funnel, and when you're  trying to improve in conversion rate, you're basically, you're trying to improve the efficiency of  going from one step to the next.

And the thing is, why we care about  conversion rate is because it's part of two different aspects of growth.

The two main  sort of drivers.

And so growth is the balance between conversion and churn.

And basically  growth happens as a gap between the two.

Something to keep in mind is that  working on churn is actually much easier than working on conversion.

So in this talk  we're working on the harder thing.

It's the thing that [inaudible] are going to get  started.

When I talk to a company and I'm trying to help them with their  conversion rates, the first thing I usually try to figure out is do we even  need to be working on this at all? So the only time you should be  working on and improving your conversion rate is because you have a leaky bucket.

So  I'd like to just talk about a couple of benchmarks in the industry so that  we all kind of sit on the same page and understand whether we should be  working on this or working on something else, like putting more things into the top  of the funnel.

Shareware, conversion of rate here is about 0.5%.

So basically, this is  old school like before the internet.

If people just release software out for free and  they just hope that somebody will pay for it out of their own goodwill.

This  is the conversion rate you can expect.

Casual download games, it's about 2%.

So stuff  that you sort of play on and off while waiting in line.

Most companies care  about this one freemium software as a service companies, they range between 1.5 and 5%.

 On average it's about 3%.

So once I talk to a company and they have  pages that are converting at about 3% and that is from out of 100 visitors  that visit your page, two to 3% sign up, I usually say you probably don't  need to spend that much more time on this.

There's probably other things you should  work on instead.

That being said, you can do much better than that.

Flicker, back  in the heyday had a conversion rate between five and 10%.

Adult FriendFinder, So depending  on what you're selling, people wanted a whole lot more.

So 10 to 22% for  sex and end of loneliness.

Even better.

So these are, if you don't recognize them,  children social networks and so basically this is the conversion rate to get your kid  to shut the fuck up, right? To leave you alone.

Turbo Tax online, the monster  70% conversion rate.

Basically you're going to turbo tax, you're downloading that software, you are  paying for it.

It is very, very high intact.

Every conversion rate problem looks like  every other user interface problem and the concept or framework that I like to use  to explain how to solve any user interface problem is using something called the Knowledge  Spectrum.

This was created by amazing interface designer name, Jared Spool and basically the Knowledge  Spectrum says that this represents all knowledge on a spectrum and on this side represents  zero knowledge, no knowledge, you don't know anything and on the other side is God-like,  all knowledge.

Your product and your user sits on two points on that line.

Just  two dimensions.

Your user sits here at what we call the current knowledge point and  your interface, your landing page, the thing you want them to do is it's here  at the target knowledge point.

And every interface problem that's trying to be solved is  trying to close what we call the knowledge gap.

That's it.

You don't need to  go to a complicated design school to know how to solve these problems.

You either  are going to increase the amount of knowledge that is needed by your user or  you need to decrease the amount of knowledge needed to use your product or interface.

 That's it.

Whenever I'm looking at anyone's design problem, I'm trying to figure out do  I need to increase knowledge or do I need to decrease it? So the most  helpful exercise that I will use from this, once I understand this concept when I'm  trying to design a landing page or to improve it, is to simplify things very,  very simply.

And what I imagine is something called the one button interface.

So let's  imagine that we reduced our landing page, our product to just one button on a  page.

The question becomes, what do I have to put on this page to get  someone to push the button? What's the minimum amount? That's what you ideally want to  have on there.

And is there any information that I put on this page that  keeps me from pushing the button or is there any lack of information that keeps  me from pushing the button? Now for every time that I deal with any page  that I'm looking at that I'm trying to help improve, I basically go through a  series of seven questions, for every single one.

And then through the series of seven  questions, I look very smart.

You now can be smart on your own.

The first  question I ask is, what's the call to action? Is the button, is the thing  I most want my user to do? Is it super obvious? Where do I find  it? And the thing to keep in mind about the call to action is it  should be really, really close to a concept I like to call the magic moment.

 The magic moment is basically the experience, the knowledge, the information, the interaction that someone  has with your startup, and all of a sudden they get tingling and inside the  light bulb goes off and they go, "Holy fuck.

I've been waiting for this my  whole life.

I now get it.

This is super exciting.

I can't wait to use  this." And your call to action should be as close to that magic moment as  possible.

That when I click that button, I'm going to be taken to that point.

 So often I go through a design critique with someone and I'm like, "What's your  magic moment?" And then somehow the call to action is like 27 steps away from  whatever it is that makes someone feel special or gets really excited about your product  or app.

So you should be as close to zero as possible from your call  to action.

The six other questions we're going to go through relatively quickly and then  we're going to go through two examples from people participating in startup school to just  watch them in action.

The next question is, what is this? What is this magic  moment, right? And my tests for this, my lips ...

My test is like, can  I just copy paste a sentence on this page, the landing page that I can  put into an email and send it to my mom and my mom goes, "I  understand what this is." 99% of the time I look at people's websites and they're  so filled with MBA marketing jargon and talk that there's no sentence that exists on  that page that it lets me to very clearly understand what it is that this  company does.

Is it right for me? So people who are super in a rush,  impatient trying to solve their problems, they're quickly trying to identify themselves.

This is like,  am I in the wrong place? Is this the right product? And the way they're  trying to determine that is see like is there any reflection of themselves in this  or any reflection of their problems? Look at it anywhere on the page.

Is it  legit? So the threshold is very low here.

Just can't look like a Russian spamming  website.

Right? Outside of that, you don't need to overthink this.

Thanks to tons of  templates and themes out there.

You should be able to get over this bar very,  very quickly.

Who else is using it? So a lot of people are uncomfortable using  a product unless they know that there's something else out there and you might think  it's a variation of legit, but again, this bar is completely different.

It's letting me  know, "Oh a shortcut for is it right for me and is it legit?" And  basically a shortcut for trust.

And people often are trying to say like, "Oh, if  so and so is already using this, then I should actually give this a chance."  How much is it? What's the catch? This is the one that so many B2B  enterprise, companies are afraid to put on their website.

Which is why we've paired this  talk up with pricing.

And basically you should have some empathy.

How many times do  you go to a website and go like, "ell I'll use this without knowing how  much it costs.

Sounds good to me.

Let's just do it." No one does that,  and so you shouldn't be surprised that your conversion rates are affected because you don't  tell people how much it costs or what's the catch.

So let's say you're giving  away something for free and really your business models, you make money some other way.

 You should explain that to people because otherwise people feel paranoid or worried or feel  kind of weird.

And then lastly is where can I get help? There's always a  percentage of users who go to your website and it doesn't matter that you have  all the FAQs, you've written everything down, you've created these few beautiful video documentation, they  will just go like, "I just want to ask someone.

I just need to talk  to somebody.

I need someone to tell me directly." And part of it is some  people are just like, "I just want to see if there's a real person behind  this." That's number one, or some people just can't be bothered and sometimes it's easier  for them to just directly ask then navigate through the website.

And if you don't  make it really easy to find and contact you or make it look like that  you were going to help them, if they start using the product, they probably won't  use it.

This talk is so short.

So that's basically it.

Those are the seven  questions.

We are now going to go through two examples of startup school companies that  sent their stuff to me and I don't really have their permission, but they did  submit it when they asked to have a design critique done in the startup school  forums.

So I feel like we're going to be okay.

Okay.

So the first one  we're going to do is meetingroom.io.

All right.

First question, what is the call to  action? What is it that this company most wants me to do? And then what  I do is I basically then try to do that thing and just follow it  all the way through and just see how far away am I from the magic  moment.

So these guys create virtual meeting room platforms, so basically we don't have a  copy paste on this, but basically it's like you want to meet in VR space  with someone.

You can use this to help create that space and create that sort  of meeting.

Imagine it is, get a virtual room right now.

There's a lot of  things that are sort of competing with it for all the call to actions on  this page, and then we don't repeat it down here.

That reminds me where to  go.

So let's go to the most efficient, get a virtual meeting room right now.

 And then on here we have competing calls to actions to download, and then we  have managed rooms.

And then there's a start here to get to your virtual room,  which is a carousel that walks you through seven steps to finally get to making  a room.

But none of these are the actual forms to do it.

So you  have to then go here and then hopefully you will remember all of those seven  steps in the carousel and then you'll walk all the way through it.

So things  that I would recommend would be like I want to have always one button.

That's  a very, very clear.

That is what I want you to do on any given  page.

Number two, I don't think this makes it easy to understand and I can't  keep it in my head to follow.

It's good that they know all the steps,  but I would probably imagine that there's something that's going to help me experience that  magic moment much sooner.

And what I imagine is that magic moment happens when I  finally make a booking and I meet with someone in a room together and we  start interacting and we're solving something.

And I feel like if I can't do that  right away, then I want to have them be able to experience it some way.

 So I would totally add some kind of video, I think they have that here.

 They'll kind of show it off.

This video is kind of long and it doesn't  get us to that magical place.

So that's number one.

Second, what is this? So  virtual meeting room platform, but if I copy and pasted that, I wouldn't quite know.

 Also you see this carousels kind of moving around.

Carousels don't work very well because  you're hiding information that I might want to have to answer any one of my  seven questions.

And secondly, Oh God, I can't figure it out ...

We do this  thing where he calls it an open beta and so the legit part here starts  getting you affected.

It's like, "Oh I can't rely on this." And the later on  the signup page it talks about entering into the closed beta.

And so these are  all things that indicate, is like I'm not ready for you to experience this.

Don't  use me for any real meetings is what this telegraphs.

And so if this basically  works, would try to move that straight forward to that.

Down here we're trying to  look for who else is also using it.

So we don't have a list of  customers, instead we have a bunch of other logos here in terms of featured in  a bunch of press that we have partners, but I don't know what that means,  and then we have a bunch of awards, but none of them are actual people  using it.

And so it's so many logos of other things that it would make  me nervous that no one's really using this as a result.

And then lastly, where  do I get help? We've gotten an intercom in the lower right and then we  also have no help page, no documentation to quickly look at to see how this  works.

And then the last one is going into pricing.

So here we get to  this point and I realize, oh, okay.

I see this pricing, if I need 12  people in a room, it's going to be $99 a month, and then I can  start sort of working on it.

And it's one page over and if I go  for the free again, we'll go through all this whole process.

So a bunch of  little things.

We just go through all the questions.

We're going to see a bunch  of non-optimal stuff on this page.

Let's go to our second example.

It'll be a  little bit different.

So this is a company called Divjoy.

And so they describe themselves  as a react codebase generator and then he has this, one description is just like  use our free web-based tool to create the perfect codebase for your next project.

So  my first question I'm trying to figure out is like what's the call to action  he most wants me to do? And so as I scroll down this page, there's  actually nothing that looks like a giant button.

And actually the big thing he wants  me to do is click on one of these templates, these screenshots that are supposed  to be the button.

So we have sort of an affordance problem and then we  go into here and my magic moment is when I get over and realize it's  like, oh, it's not just like landing page templates, but it's like a dashboard.

It's  like a sign in page, a pricing page.

It's like the entire project for building  a SAS app is all located here, which I think is really amazing and nothing  just tells me that that's what's all here.

And I might not find out until  I export code, and then I hit download and then I'll get the code.

Yeah.

 So we're so many steps away from sort of experiencing that, and also I feel  like it's so not explicit that I might miss how amazing what he's built here  is in terms of what he's offering.

One thing he does kind of well is  he doesn't have logos of customers, but he has shown how many people have created  or downloaded the templates.

So this number kind of sets it like Oh there's people  actually using this and finding it useful.

Down here, he tries to get at this,  everything you need is included.

And then he adds all this other texts.

But all  that text is there and the odds are your users aren't going to read them.

 So because it's located into that copy, it gets kind of lost.

And then again  we have an intercom, but there's just not enough information in terms of like FAQs,  right? And about page.

That just makes me go like, oh that this is more  than a side project, and so in terms of how much I can sort of  invest in this and how much I can rely on this down the road in  the future is going to be minimal.
