# Kevin Hale - Startup Pricing 101

Kevin Hale:This was a highly requested talk from last year.

Lots of people who had questions  about pricing were really confused.

It actually was well requested both at YC itself, that's  a very, very popular workshop that we run.

And so we're going to go over  a lot of basic fundamentals for pricing that hopefully will just help you understand how  to approach your pricing and monetization from first principles, and then you help you help  yourselves.

Same thing with the landing page.

So we're going to go over first principles  for pricing.

We're going to go over why is pricing particularly hard for startups, for  people making innovative products and new markets? Like why is it extra difficult? How do  you do price optimization? Like how do you actually do it? What does that actually  look like? And just kind of demystify that whole process.

When we look at the  challenges of pricing, you start recognizing why certain types of customer segments that you're going  after are difficult, like SMB.

And we'll talk a little bit about that.

We're going  to talk about how pricing affects your acquisition strategy.

It changes what you can do  and what you cannot do and it's extremely important because a lot of companies get  caught up doing the wrong acquisition strategy or wasting too much money because their price  is incorrect.

And then I'm going to give you some rules of thumbs, some pricing  tricks, just to help make it a lot easier when you're encountering different pricing problems.

 I call them pricing tricks sprinkles.

Okay.

There are three levers you can pull to  improve growth.

So in the last talk I talked about conversion rate and churn, but  monetization is actually the big dog.

It's the one that I really like.

Now, there  was a survey done with over 500 SaaS companies and they talked about sort of  like amount of effort that they put into each one of these strategies and the  returns that they got as a result of it.

Now acquisition is really fun and  exciting.

It's the one that everyone kind of understands simply.

It's like, "I get more  customers, I get more logos, gives me more growth." Retention of course is about keeping  customers, and monetization is about getting more money per customer.

Now if you increase just  your efforts or resources by 1%, your work on acquisition usually get a return of  about 3.32%.

In retention it's about 6.7 and when you're optimizing pricing that gives you  your biggest bang for your buck in terms of impact on your business.

Yet and  it's the one that is most neglected and I think it's the one that everyone  is so afraid to touch because they're so scared that if they get the pricing  wrong that they will lose all their customers.

Now the first principles, the basic idea  about pricing, the thing, the concept that really opened up in my head, how to  think about pricing, how to understand the problems that people are facing and why startups  get it wrong, is to use a concept called the pricing thermometer.

And so you  have to understand that when you price something there's actually two other factors at play.

 And so there's a cost, there's the price and then there's the value.

And the  interplay and relationship between these items affects how growth happens inside of your company.

Now  the gap between price and cost, that is your margin, that is your incentive to  sell.

And so the bigger that gap is, the more you are driven to want  to push your product to your customers, to have your salespeople, et cetera.

This gap  here between price and value, is incentive to buy.

And the larger that gap is,  the easier it is to have your customers to want to sign up or use  your product.

Now to figure out price, there's really two ways to go about it.

 You either start with the cost if you know what it is and you figure  out where your price is based off of that.

That is called cost plus.

The  other way to do it is figure out what is the value of your company  or product or service and then you figure out your price from that and that  is called value based pricing.

In startups and almost pretty consistently across all businesses, everyone  will tell you, you should strive for value-based pricing.

It allows you to charge a  whole lot more.

It allows you to manipulate this incentive to buy.

The problem is  because people do not understand their relationships or even understand what are their costs and  what are the value that the customer is going to think about their product, they  put their price in a kind of arbitrary place and they don't know what are  the forces at play that drives it.

And it results in four different types of  mistakes.

The first one is startups will price their products too low.

Basically you consistently  undercharge.

It's the number one piece of advice we give to most startups, to fix  their pricing.

And I'll talk a little bit about why most companies fall into that  trap.

You underestimate your costs, and the result is you have a problem where your  margins aren't enough to cover sort of acquisition.

You don't understand your value.

You don't  understand how your company thinks about the problem that you're solving for them or how  they value it.

And either they don't understand your value or you don't know how  to convince them of the value that you think you offer.

And as a result  you can't get the price that you want.

And lastly you focus on the wrong  customers.

That you think, "Man, if I built a better product and I charge half  the competition, I win." The thing is that almost never happens, and the reason is  because you as a startup, you as working on something to create a new market  are working on innovative products.

You are focused on the wrong customers.

They are not  the mainstream people who are going to look at the price and make most of  the determination based off of that.

This is the sales and profit over a product's  life from inception to demise, that's what it's called.

All you need to know is  that these are five different stages of a company and this is what sales might  look like over different stages and what profits might look like over those different stages.

 You who are in startup school, you who are getting seed funding, you are in  the first two stages, product development stage, introduction.

You are not in the growth phase.

 And the thing to keep in mind is that the customers in the first two  stages, the ones that you're going after, they don't look like mainstream customers that you  find in growth and maturity stages.

They're not mature customers, they're early adopters.

And thing  to know about early adopters is you don't really get a lot of momentum and  growth until you get past the first two to 5% of potential buyers of your  market.

These people in that two to 5%, they're called early adopters.

And a thing  that drives them is very different from mainstream people.

So one, there's a couple of  things that keep in mind about pricing innovative products.

What you are trying to do  fundamentally is require users to change their pattern.

To stop doing it the old shitty  spreadsheet way and do it in the new better your way.

And getting someone to  change their pattern is actually difficult.

Right? Especially if they're a mature person.

Partly because  the average user lacks information needed and the trust in you or whatever it is  that you're making to make that change, to take that risk.

You are entrepreneurs, you're  comfortable taking risks.

Your customers are not entrepreneurs for the most part, they're probably less  comfortable taking risks.

And so in the beginning you're going after people who are willing  to take a risk, and those are early adopters.

Those are people who care about  benefits above all else.

That the highest value to them is beating their competition, doing  something much better and taking a chance that something new will give them that edge  over anybody else.

Those early adopters therefore are not price sensitive.

If anything, if you've  built a better product and you charge less, it looks like you have reputation risk.

 It's like why is it too good to be true? What is the catch? And  what will end up happening is it takes much longer to get them to understand.

 This is basically all price optimization.

This is those complicated way that you can try  to show price optimization.

This is the demand yield curve, and what you have on  this side is different prices, and on this side you have sales unit sales and  basically what you are trying to figure out when you're optimizing the price that you're  charging your customers is like, "Basically what is the perfect balance between how much I  charge and how much sales volume I get?" And then your price optimization is basically  that.

Try different prices and then see what the effect is.

When I have my  companies optimize their prices, they just use a very simple table.

You don't need to  try to figure that weird-ass graph.

Basically you want to have a column that says  these are the prices I'm going to try, and then what is the result in  conversion rate, what is the result in sales volume? And then how much revenue did  I generate? That's all it is.

And so let's say I have prices at these  different price points and I get these different conversion rates, and I get this sales  volume, I should immediately be able to see who the winner is.

Here we go.

 Now, the one thing to keep in mind once we have figured out something like  this on a simple product is that these areas at lower prices, if you can  afford them in terms of your margin are actually lost opportunities.

And what you want  to understand about these, are these are what you're going to see if you offer  discount pricing or offer tiered pricing at different price points.

Another exercise I like to  go with companies when dealing with pricing is help them understand like are you in  a danger zone? And so what I usually do with my companies is I have  them sort of calculate what would their business look like or what does it going  to look like to be a billion-dollar company.

And usually the rule of thumb there  is to be doing $100 million a year in sales and revenue.

And so that  basically is like at your price that you give, how many customers do you need  to have to make a $100 million in that year? So let's have a bunch  of different price points.

Then we know, "Okay, great.

I need these number of customers  in order to make this formula work." You understand what that looks like, at a  hundred-dollar price point, with a potential of about million users, right? This is consumers.

That's  what that consumer space looks like.

And you know what this down here it looks  like.

$100,000 here, we call this enterprise.

This area here is the part that a  lot of companies are in and really, really struggle.

They're on the struggle bus and  it tends to be SMB.

These are people who treat their money like consumers, but  they look like they might be an enterprise.

And the reason why this is such  a danger zone is because it will tend to fit in the wrong place on  my next diagram.

So let's imagine that this vertical axis represents price.

You can charge  either a high price or a low price for your product and this represents complexity  of your sales process.

Low complexity to high complexity.

If you are having a product  that is $2,000 or less and is basically self-serve, then you have something in this  quadrant here.

And this affects completely what you can do in terms of what drives  your business, what you can spend on to get that sort of growth, that price  point here at $2,000.

It needs to have almost all marketing be inbound.

You can't  spend a lot of money outbound on ads, et cetera.

Your support has to be  completely self-serve or very, very minimal.

You have no sales team at this price point.

 You can't afford it.

But conversions can happen on the same day, must be in  a self-serve model.

Transactional, so between two and $10,000 when you're able to charge this,  you're able to have a few new toys at your sleeves and so marketing now  can be focused on generating qualified leads.

Your customer support can now offer SLAs or  you could start paying for training [inaudible] people get onboarded.

For sales, you can't hire  a dedicated salesperson, but maybe you could have an inside sales rep to sell within  companies or within your customers.

You could maybe have an SDR and you can maybe  have someone dedicated to giving product demos.

Sales cycle here should not be longer than  one to three months.

Enterprise, so over $25,000.

Now for marketing, you can start spending  things on branding, on building up trust with customers.

Your support is very, very high  touch that you can afford.

You can do phone support, you can have a customer  success person dedicated to the client.

And for sales, you're going to start thinking about  sales managers, dividing stuff into territories and having sales engineers that participate in terms of  conversion and the sales calls.

These will have a sales cycle of about six to  12 months.

This is the garbage zone, right? And you know, if you're potentially in  this, and this is the big wake up call for you, if it's taking you  months and months and months to close someone, but you're not making a lot of  money to cover it, you have a process where your acquisition costs are just too  high for you to be sustainable and you have to get yourself out of that  problem.

All of your work should be towards increasing the perceived value of your product  or service.

I'm going to end on a good rule of thumb.

So if you  are starting with some kind of price but you don't know how to sort of  optimize it or figure it out, then here's a good place to get going.

The  first thing is, I like to have things where the value is 10X the price  of whatever it is I'm charging.

And I want to have it so that the  value is easily understood to be a 10X.

So for example, if I charge for  a product that is $10, then it should be in terms of perceived value by  my customer that it's worth $100 to them.

If they do not immediately understand the  10X value of the price, it's going to be hard to get them to move.

 Their incentive to buy might be too low.

Once you have any kind of price,  and this is particularly important for people who are doing B2B or enterprise sale, you  should start practicing raising prices.

And I like to just start by raising prices by  5%.

If you feel really confident, jump it up by bigger numbers if you want,  but this is a pretty safe way to do it so that you can feel  comfortable with it.

And you want to keep raising prices until you're losing 20% of  your customers.

That's about a good balance to have in terms of understanding that like,  "I have a good price here.

I'm losing 20% of my deals.

It's not too  high, it's not too low." In summary for pricing.

Pricing gives the most bang for  your buck.

You should work on pricing.

If you've never touched the pricing of your  product, then you're losing out on lots of potential growth.

Understand the variables.

Do you  really understand your cost? Do you understand why you've played the price where it is,  and do you understand the value? When you go into a sales meeting or a  call, do you talk to people or you basically say, "I know exactly what this  is going to be worth to you." So when I tell you what the price  is going to be, you're going to be like, "Damn, that's totally worth it." Go  after early adopters.

Remember as a startup, that is who you're going after.

So when  you are talking to customers and they are taking a really long time to make  a decision, or they're wanting to have a lot more proof that other people are  using it, you are not talking to an early adopter.

You're wasting a lot of  time on non-believers.

Go after them first.

Don't take it personally when these people who  are much more mature aren't ready for your product.

They were never going to be.

 Your job is to get through that first two to 5% of the market.

Those  early adopters care more about benefits than price, so don't undercharge your products when you  have something that is of value and easily understood to have value.

Get organized.

When  you're doing price optimization, it's really, really easy.

Don't over complicate things.

Figure out a  bunch of different price points you want to check, understand sales volume, conversion rate, and  the revenue that's involved, and that will help you make the best pricing decision.

Your  price will determine your acquisition strategy.

If you realize that your sales cycle or all  the things that you're spending on is way too much for the amount of money  that you're charging, you either need to increase the price, [inaudible] reduce your acquisition strategy  costs.

Use the 10/5/20 rule.

Set a price that is 10X, that has a 10th  of the value.

Increased prices by 5% until you're losing 20% of the deals.

Thank  you very much guys.
