# Kevin Hale - How to Work Together

Kevin Hale:These are some guys I saw in Kyoto and they're tearing down a scaffolding and  I just think they're...

Amazingly poetic and how they do their work.

So in a  startup founders basically have to figure out how to optimize for a relationship that lasts  for like 10 years.

And that's a crazy thing to do with someone you might  only know for a couple of months or have only known and it's sort of  work setting.

And the thing is like the only models for understanding that kind of  relationship actually come probably from our parents.

And so I'd like to start off with  some marriage research.

So this is John Gottman, he studied marriages in Seattle.

He's been  featured in this American Life and a bunch of different places and basically he has  a cool magic trick.

He can watch a couple fight about something for 15 minutes  and predict with 85% accuracy whether they'll be divorced or not four years from now.

 If he watches them for an hour and have them also share their hopes and  dreams.

His prediction rating goes up to 94%.

And so this is the same videos  they would show two priests, psychologists, psychiatrists, marriage counselors, successfully married couples.

And they don't  predict better than random chance.

And so John Gottman he's figured something up.

There's something  about the way we will have an argument that determines longevity.

And one of the  most surprising things that he discovered was that it's not that successfully married people who  will last a long time that they never fight.

It turns out everybody in fights.

 And we all fight about the exact same things, money, kids, sex, time, jealousy, and  the in-laws.

And time is usually what are we going to do with our free  time? And the thing that's interesting is like, I think all of these map out  to this stuff that we're going to fight about in a company.

And so you  with your co-founders are going to have these issues.

And the thing is what's nice  about knowing everyone fights and that you know what you're going to fight about is  that we can make a plan for figuring out how to deal with this one  situation that will determine whether we will work together on the thing that we're so  passionate about down the road.

The other thing that John got me figured out is  that there's four major things we want to avoid when we're fighting, and when we  do these things they will create sort of leading indicators that the relationship is in  serious trouble.

I'm going to go through each one of these.

So criticism, this is  basically like you're talking with someone and you're like, "Hey you know what? I have  a serious concern about this bug that we are trying to fix and I'm really  worried about this thing and I'm not sure that we're going to be able to  deploy on time." And someone comes up and says like, "Well, you know, what I  don't like? Is the fact that you leave a bunch of dirty dishes in the  sink." And criticism is basically this idea that we don't fight on one topic, we  start trying to bring all these other issues into play instead of addressing the one  issue at hand.

Dangerous.

Contempt is a pretty easy one.

It's intention to insult.

So  basically I say like, "Hey, I'm worried about this bug and we're not going to  be able to deploy on time" And someone says, "Oh, I don't like your face."  That's contempt.

And what you want to avoid is making things personal.

So run a  business.

This one's kind of easy to understand is that someone not owning responsibility about  the problem.

And so we can't move forward because someone won't admit that there's a  problem out there.

We defend that we haven't done anything wrong and therefore there can't  be resolution between two people if the other person thinks there's a problem.

This one  is a super dangerous one.

And it's when basically you're like, "Hey, I got a  problem and the person just walks away." Won't engage, won't talk to you.

And so  there can be no way to create any kind of resolution.

So just as you  wouldn't do this without doing some of this, we want to make a plan and  I'm going to talk about four different things that we can do that helps avoid  and protect us from those four horsemen.

The first one is divide and conquer.

And  this feels pretty straight forward, but you want to do this early in the relationship  with your co-founders and in the early stages of your company.

So here's our list  again of the types of things that we might have problems with.

And in the  early stages of the startup, let's say [Adora] and I are doing a startup together,  just her and me.

Then what you want to do is just kind of say  like, "Oh, who's responsible, what stuff?" And what this will do is like, if there's  a problem in that category, then that person that we have assigned to ahead of  time to be in charge, we'll be the ones that will ultimately either make the  decision or ultimately are responsible.

This protects us from defensiveness.

So notice that you're on  jealousy.

This is about competition usually.

And so usually in the early stages of your  start up, you should not be worried about competition.

Competition is not usually what kills  you in the very early stages of your company.

As your company ages.

It might  change and look something like this...

You'll sign things at different sort of positions and  heads.

And as a result then when there's problems come up, you know, basically that  sort of is delegated.

Now what happens...

If things go out of hand, even up  at those sort of levels.

Well basically what you want to do is decide after  you delegate who has ownership, determine what is success and failure.

You want to know  also ahead of time, "Hey, we've divided up the tasks." But we also want to  know is like, "Hey, when is there going to be interference with the person that  is supposed to be leading these decisions?" What is considered like it's success enough that  we shouldn't be interfering and just let them do what they think is best and  what is considered really bad so that we have to enter fear and something has  to be done about it.

So in this case, good examples would be like, "Hey,  if we've successfully fundraise, like we don't need to talk or like replace the person  that's responsible for that.

If we're shipping on time, if we're rated top three amongst  the our sort of peers or we've built a referral program that's working, hey, we  don't need to be criticizing the person that's working on the stuff or they're doing  a good job.

On the corollary.

We want to define, hey, what are the things  that basically are going to trigger conversations? Really hard conversations like, "Hey, if we hit  this sort of area, we need to put the brakes on and we need to  discuss what's going on and actually try to resolve these problems." A lot of people  like to delegate stuff, but they don't have a way of saying, "Hey, when are  we going to have a conversation about this? When there's trouble?" And these are really,  really easy to do.

And the reason you want to do these early while you're  sober emotionally sober is because once you get angry and emotions come into play, then  you might not be thinking rationally.

Now ultimately in the end, usually it's the CEO  and the company who has final say.

Now you as a team can decide differently  how you want to resolve it if you'd just, if you divvy up the stuff.

 But ultimately whoever's the CEO usually is one who resolves it.

And if there's problems  with the CEO, then it's the board.

And early stages of the startup the board  is usually composed of just the founders.

So you have to ultimately work it out.

 The second defense against the horsemen is knowing yourself.

This will protect you from stonewalling.

 And when I mean is what is your attachment style? So there was all this  research that was done in the 1960s about how people approach relationships.

And basically it  was determined that there's sort of three major types.

There's a secure attachment style, and  that means basically it's like, "Hey, you know what? I don't have a problem going  up to people, relying on them and having them rely on me and sort of  like us creating a relationship.

I don't mind being vulnerable and I don't mind other  people being vulnerable with me." That's called a secure attachment style.

There's an anxious style.

 So there is a type of person that will be like, "You know what? I  kind of don't get enough love as not as much as I want.

I kind  of want to like hold on to people and I kind of want to have  people [inaudible] confirm with me that they want to be with me.

I feel like  it's a little difficult." And then there's another point kind of person who's like, "I  find it kind of difficult creating relationships with people and I kind of want to  run away sometimes because it's really scary." Or, "I'm worried that I'm going to mess  it up?" And the thing that's super important here, especially with your co-founder is you  want to know your co-founders attachment style because that's going to dictate how you are  going to be able to resolve and understand your differences.

Now what, it turns out  oddly enough is that an anxious attachment person and an avoidant attachment person, these are  the two most common in the world.

There's not that many like well-developed secure people  out there.

They tend to want to be with one another.

So the person that  wants to run away and the person that wants to cling until you have is  someone who needs space to make a decision and to process problems, intention and the  someone who needs validation constantly, the process conflict and issues.

And so when those two  people are together and they don't realize what the other person needs, they don't realize  that they're going to have to bend to sort of make it work.

There's lots  of good books on attachment styles has a wonderful Wikipedia page that covers it.

I  would recommend watching this youtube video that's from a School Of Life.

And what I  would highly recommend is basically understanding that like if you're with someone that is of  the opposite type, that you're going to have to do work either to reach across  the aisle.

Like if you're an anxious person, and you're talking to an avoidant person,  you just have to realize like, oh, that person's needs space.

But that doesn't mean  they're running away from you.

And if you're an avoidant person and you're with an  anxious person that if someone needs your attention or if you need your space, then  you have to let them know as like, "Hey, I'm going to be back.

I  realized that you're going to need an answer for this.

I'm going to go away.

 I'm going to figure stuff out.

And I promise a time that we will deal  with this.

Documented process, so this will protect you from criticism.

And so basically when  you're emotionally sober, it's the best time to create a process for dealing with disagreements.

 And the reason you want to do this is because once you're upset and angry  and filled with emotions, you are not going to be thinking straight.

And so the  odds are you might say something you regret, you might say something that you don't  mean and the other person might do so and then you will have a much  different problem than the bug not being fixed and deployed on time.

So one of  my favorite examples of this comes from the company called [Matter].

And they created a  spreadsheet for dealing with disagreements.

Basically it's a disagreement, decision framework and basically it just  talks about, it's like, "hey, when we have a disagreement we should just document it.

 This helps.

Makes things really, really transparent.

Makes us understand both sides very, very clearly.

 We'll talk about the different options we say who makes the decision, what the decision  was, the date it was done and then rationale and so when we walk through  this process, if we've decided this ahead of time, then it means that we are  not afraid when disagreements come up.

It's like, "Oh, we have a process for dealing  with this and we will figure it out by filling out excel." There's lots of  different ways to do this.

You don't have to follow their sort of very specific  framework.

They have lots of really great justifications in their article.

You just have to  agree ahead of time what you want to do so therefore when you are upset  you just go, "Okay, great.

We have a process for this.

And it process says,  "Oh, it says go have a time out or eat a bologna sandwich or like  take a nap first and then we'll figure out what we have to do.

It  could be a process where it's like, "Hey, if there's a real disagreement and both  sides feel equally strong, we will flip a coin and then that will be the  decision for the test of time.

We will let lady luck decide." It doesn't matter.

 You just have to both agree.

This strategy will protect you from contempt.

So the  way that you avoid making things personal is you have to figure out way of  communicating with another in a way that will not be threatening.

There's an amazing book  on this.

It's called Nonviolent Communication by Marshall Rosenberg and it helps you be honest  with other people without criticizing, without insulting and without putting down other people.

And the  magic that comes in the structure that feels somewhat fake for people who are not  into being touchy feely.

Basically when you're giving some kind of criticism, you want to  basically have it in this format.

So when some observation, I feel an emotion because  I'm needing some universal need, would you be able to request? So we're just going  to break down each one of these different parts and they're all...

Every single one  of these are tricky and it's a thing that a lot of people will try  to do and you'll spend your whole life trying to get really good at and  it's really difficult.

So the first one is you need to make an observation versus  having an evaluation.

So basically what you want to do is start your disagreement or  criticism by anchoring the something that is concrete.

You do not want it to be  something that is connected to opinion.

It should be something that you actually saw or  heard because therefore you can't disagree with something that actually happen versus something I heard  via rumor or something that has to do something that seems emotional or something that  seems like an opinion.

So I'll give you an example.

An observation would be like,  "You said that you'd send that document last week and I haven't received it." All  right.

So that is a great observation.

Evaluation that someone might say instead in the  heat of the mon is that, "You're fucking lazy." That kind of feels like an  observation, but it's not.

It's evaluating the person.

Give you another example.

Your work is  sloppy.

That is not objective.

Instead, "Hey, three of the numbers in this report were  inaccurate." That's where you want to start.

"You're always late." You want to be really  careful because that's a generalization.

It's an evaluation.

Observation.

"Hey, you arrived 10 minutes late  to the meeting this morning." Evaluation, "You ignored me." Observation, "I sent you two emails  and I haven't received a response." Notice when we start with observation, we start with  a fact that can't be refuted and so we're not going to end up arguing  about something else.

Notice all those other evaluations.

They immediately will trigger an emotion in  you and that's why you want to be really careful.

Then we need to start  this criticism that you don't start with one of those.

The next is we have  to talk about our emotions.

So I saw this irrefutable observation and it made me  feel something.

And what we have to be really careful of is not saying thoughts,  but instead talking about feelings, which is kind of odd, but it's connected to the  next point in the structure.

So an emotion will be, I feel frustrated.

Now a  thought would be, and it could be put in the same structure.

It's like, I  feel that you aren't taking this seriously.

And the way you can tell if something  is a thought or a feeling is you substitute the phrase I think with I  feel and it still works.

So I think frustrated.

Doesn't work so that's a feeling.

 I think that you aren't taking this seriously.

Oh, that's a thought.

There was a  couple of emotions that we have to be particularly careful of.

One is anger, because  anger is usually tied to a bunch of hosts of other things.

So when someone  says that I feel angry you or you realizing that you feel angry, you want  to be really, really specific about what's causing the anger, what's triggering it.

The other  tricky emotions are evaluative emotions.

And usually what you need to figure out is what  underlines that evaluation.

So I'll give you an example.

So I feel blamed, right? Someone  else's evaluating me, I feel blamed.

The impact actually is I feel scared.

Someone is  blaming me and so I feel scared.

So it takes a lot of work to  understand that when someone is giving me some...

If I'm feeling like some kind of  judging feeling, what does that the core root of it? Other examples are, I feel  judged.

The actual impact is I feel resentful.

I feel misunderstood.

The impactful statement is  actually I feel frustrated.

I feel rejected.

The real impact is I feel hurt.

It's  super hard.

It's super, super hard.

I'm going to have a link inside of this  presentation to a pdf.

It's three pages of evaluate of emotions, impacted feelings you probably  actually are feeling and then connects us to a universal need that you need to  overcome it, which leads us to our next thing.

Every negative emotion lies and unmet  universal need.

And so what that means is that like when you're feeling one of  these frustrated or blamed or scared or hurt feelings, there's something that's missing that you're  going to need.

And the thing that's really tricky about universal needs that you have  to be careful realizing is it a strategy or is it a need? And is  it truly universal? So I'll give you an example.

You might be able to say,  "I need a sandwich." That is not a universal need.

So you have to be  really careful.

And then you might say like, "I need a sandwich to give me  nourishment." That's more like a strategy.

A much better way might be, let me see  here.

You might say something like, "I need you to copy me on every single  email." But the thing is that's not a universal need.

That becomes very, very specific.

 A universal need would be, I need some transparency about this process.

You have to  be careful of not making needs about something that's very specific to yourself or just  that situation.

Because once it's a universal need, then it's something that everyone can agree  that everyone should sort of have.

So other universal needs are like I need support.

 And the way you turn it not into universal need is by saying something like,  "I need support from you." It's not everyone needs support from Henry.

But everyone does  need support and I says you include from you, it stops being universal.

So you  want to be really careful of this.

Okay.

Requests versus demand.

So at the very  end, so basically said like, "Hey, I noticed something that can't be refuted.

I told  you about a feeling and how it impacts me.

And I told you that basically  it results in some universal need that we all can agree that we need to  have.

And now we get to saying what we'd like to have changed as a  result." And where you want to make is a request, not a demand.

The difference  is that a request is an invitation to the other person to meet our universal  needs.

It's much easier to be able to do than to say like, "I order  you to do something.

So what we want to do is make it very specific,  our requests.

So I request for you to be more respectful is not that great  because who defines what's respectful? My version of respectful might be different from someone else's.

 Your request should be something like, "I request that you arrive to meetings on time."  Say what you want.

Don't say what you don't want.

So what a lot of  people will say is, "I request that you don't dismiss other people's ideas straight away."  The thing is it doesn't indicate the behavior that you do want.

And so it  becomes really difficult to act on a better one would be, I request that when  a team member shares an idea, you ask two or three probing questions before sharing  a conclusion.

And then stay curious.

And so sometimes you might make a request and  someone might say, "No." And what you need to do is not just freak out  that the whole process isn't working.

The idea is actually they'd be like maybe I  haven't put this request in a way that can meet more needs than just myself.

 Could I do this in a way so that they can understand and be on  board for everyone to be sort of involved.

If you want to learn more there's  a really great article on Delivering Constructive Feedback and Different situations by Dave Bailey [zombied],  I'll have a link to it and he goes into far more detail and is  a very, very good starting point for giving out this really hard feedback.

We all  know what technical debt is? So when we're building out software really, really quickly, and  sometimes you're like, "Well, that's not going to scale really well and it's going to  be dirty and quick, but I'm going to get it out the door and I'm  just going to put that in the back of my mind as something I have  to fix later." Well, in our relationships another, you will incur emotional debt.

And unlike  technical debt, you really don't want that to go for very long.

You want to  pay this down every day.

So it turns out also in John Gottman's research that  it wasn't that people who were really good at being in a marriage only thought  about really big things.

It turns out they like would immediately bring up stuff even  when it's really tiny or small.

They would never let a small thing grow to  be a medium thing.

And then eventually a big thing they immediately will talk about  is like, "Oh man can you close your mouth when you're chewing real quick.

It's  just like kind of bothering me right now." And then do it in a way  that sort of respectful.

And so like when you're with your co-founders and you're in  this really sensitive relationship and you're finding stuff that's being really troubling, like you can  communicate those needs really quickly and you will prevent those small things from becoming big  things.

The best way to start doing this is the practice.

So at YC we  call these level three conversations.

So level one is that informal conversation and we have  other people where it's just like data exchange, passing information back and forth.

Level two  conversations, have some emotions, talk about some things that are personal level three conversations.

They're  relational, they're engaged with something that's happening right now between two people.

That is super,  super important.

It is a deep dive into what it might be really troubling and  what might be really mattering to two people.

And then in a startup, there's a  lot of things that's going to matter to all of the people working on the  company.

So let's go through some examples of things that you guys can do after  this talk.

So goals, some good ones are, what are our short term goals for  the company? You'd be surprised at how often people are not on the same page  about this.

Are we using the right metrics? We've got lectures on those.

The answers,  I hope so by now.

And then are we...

That's supposed to be hitting our  goals, not hiring our goals? Are we hitting our goals? Roles? Who's responsible for what?  Super sensitive, right? So is it clear who is responsible for what? Like just have  that conversation.

Do we agree that the current division makes the most sense? And this  might be super simple answers, but if there is any kind of disagreement, we want  to hash that out.

And performance oh, okay, so is our workload distributed in an  optimal manner today? Do we all feel a high level of dedication and a motivation  right now? Great thing to just check on every day.

And then what mechanisms are  in place for providing feedback to one another? Have we carved out time for paying  down emotional debt? Do we feel like we can have these level three conversations at  any time? Do we have a process in place for taking through this stuff so  that we can be honest about where we are in our company? There's some things  up how to work together.

Everyone fights, so you want to make a plan, you  need to figure out what's your attachment style, what's your roles, what's your goals and  a process before emotions get involved.

Do it while you're sober.

Use nonviolent communication, the  share honest feedback without criticism, and then pay down emotional debt on a regular basis.

 This is the most healthy way that you will make sure that things will not  turn into a giant blow up.

You can start having hard conversations right now.

There's  no doubt in my mind that there's probably some issue that the two of you  or three of you or four of you or God forbid seven of you are  not talking about.

Thank you very much.

All right, we're going to open it up  to questions.

Who wants to share their emotional problems? Yes.

Right here.

Menu Hashtag.

Yeah.
Speaker 2:So one of our co-founders just walked out on us last week.
Speaker 1:It sucks.
Speaker 2:So yeah.

It kind of affected our [inaudible] a lot, but we're just wondering if  that's too early to wrap up and put things on paper and let them sign  so that there's no [inaudible] in the future anything like that [inaudible].
Speaker 1:Trying to think.

So the question is, you just had a co-founder that's left and  then is it too late to do all the legal stuff you need to iron  things out?
Speaker 2:Yeah, is it too early because we are not a registered as company yet.
Speaker 1:Well, if you haven't registered as a company, then there's no shares to fight over  technically, and it's over only overwork.

The only legal thing that might be tricky is  that it was there an understanding that people are supposed to be paid for their  work or not? But I take it, there's probably also no contracts at all.

And  so that's the other thing that people sometimes run into issues with their co-founders.

It's  just like, oh, we've been working on this but we haven't been paying ourselves.

And  then when someone gets angry and left, they hadn't been paying themselves a minimum wage.

 And then he has a viable case for saying like, "Hey, I haven't been paid  for the work I've done." I take it, there's been no contract signed.

It is  not too early to go remedy all that so that you protect yourself.

You definitely  want to put things in place like vesting and clear understandings of the relationships amongst  the founders and understanding like who owns the equity, who is the CEO, who ultimately  makes the decision so that way it will prevent future stuff from causing problems.

Right  here.
Speaker 3:So as you start building up a team, how do you reconcile firing fast with  forming a good relationships?
Speaker 1:So as you build up the team, how do you reconcile firing fast versus building  good relationships? So hopefully you will do everything you can just try to establish good  relationships.

There are some cases where if you've done all of these things and the  person does not want to engage, they don't want communicate in a nonviolent way.

They  refuse to do the things that will prevent them.

And you basically notice that there's  all these conflicts with those four horsemen.

To me, those are indications that like, "Hey,  this person we've already talked about, we had a plan for how to deal with  this stuff and you're not sticking to the plan.

And as far as I'm concerned,  you're not meeting your end of the bargain." And so to me, again, there's a  balance.

There is like you do all this stuff, yes, but if it's not working  out, you need to move on because otherwise you affect other people in the team  and the other morale.

I've never talked to a founder who eventually fired someone that  they were having a problem with and then regretted it.

Usually you're always like, "Why  didn't I do that sooner?" The best advice I ever heard about this is from  Max Levchin, who's the founder of PayPal.

And he basically says like, "If there's doubt,  then there is no doubt." So once you start feeling like there's something wrong, the  problem...

It's basically not going to go away.

And now you're losing mental energy and  shares over the problem with that relationship over solving things to help the company grow.

 And quite honestly, it's so hard to do a startup finding a battle on multiple  fronts mentally and emotionally is just like really, really difficult.

And that's what used to  eat a lot of startups.

In the back there.
Speaker 4:There are some pretty successful founders who somewhat famously mystically are not people people.

So  if that was one of your co-founders, how do I do this but avoid firing  Steve jobs as a co-founder?
Speaker 1:So there are some people who are assholes, famous assholes as founders, how to deal  with that.

If that turns out to be one of my co-founders? And you have  to decide together what kind of company that you want to run.

And so you  together have decided that it's okay for him to have that behavior, then that's really  on you to sort of decide and have that sort of compact.

I'll tell you  our feelings at YC.

And so in the early days of YC, PG kind of  selfishly optimize the program for like, I'm only going to fund people that I want  to have dinner with every week because I got to spend a lot of time  with these people.

So he was like, "No assholes." And not because he thought that  assholes can't found huge [inaudible] companies like back in 2005, like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates,  like those were the role models for a founder CEOs.

But for him he was  optimizing for his time and energy and presence.

And the surprising side effect was that  a room full of people who were lovely to have dinner with, they help one  another and they still found billion dollar companies and those people are really great community  members inside of YC.

It's one of the reasons why the YC network works out  really well.

They are good at hiring people, bringing people along, getting people excited, they're  easy to get funding because investors want to work with them, et cetera.

And so  for us, we optimize the, not have that experience with our founders and we might  leave some money on the table as a result.

But because I will work with  over a hundred new companies a year and I've worked with over a thousand, almost  2000 companies, then the result is I build up this huge alumni base and I  can't have a bunch of assholes in there that takes away attention from one another.

 So again, there's plenty of counterexamples to people being good, but I would like to  believe and what I would hope for everyone and started schools that you could have  a company that's different, that you can believe that this is a much easier way  to run a company than one run by dictatorship and fear.

Right here.
Speaker 5:Other than no asshole policy or any other guard rails or suggestions for best practices  for delineating these roles?
Speaker 1:Other than no assholes.

Are there any other guard rails or best practices for delineating  these roles? I don't really talk about it here, but like are they people you  want to spend a lot of time with? Kind of like what PG talked about.

 And so a lot of things might indicate that in different ways.

It could be.

 It's like, you know what, this person isn't going to bother me.

Is it going  to be really needy? And so I could spend a lot of time with them.

 And there's other people, there's like, this guy is not very fun.

He's not going  play video games with me on our time off.

I can't do with this.

And  so really you're optimizing not just for like can I work on an idea for  10 years, but can I just spend a lot of time with this person for  10 years? You might think that that's connected that asshole, but it might be completely  different.

Like your needs for your kind of relationship is very, very different as a  result.

I can't think of anything else off the top of my head.

Oh, they  have to be someone you trust.

If you're going to assign them a portion of  the company, you're going to give them half of the equity.

Then you have to  believe in them 100% that they are going to do what's right for the company  no matter what.

That's going to make it easy for you to give up the  equity or split the equity between the both of you.

But if you don't trust  your co-founder, then it will lead to things like you will micromanage them.

You will  worry about what they do with their time.

You will spend a lot of time  thinking about them instead of thinking about the business.

So figure out how to find  someone that you really, really trust or figure out if are you the kind of  person that can let go and trust someone and truly share the load.

Because having  a co-founder or bring on employees, it's really about being humble enough to say like,  "I can't do this by myself.

I need you." And that kind of vulnerability is  something that most people don't realize.

Lot of people think that the way they attract  other co-founders is by saying is like, "I'm super fucking awesome and you're lucky to  be on my bandwagon.

That's not the kind of person I want to be on.

 But someone who says like, "Man, I'm trying to make things happen and I think  we could make the magic happen twice as fast as you were on my team.

 I'd be so lucky to have you on here.

Do you want to join me?"  Such a different attitude.

Right here.
Speaker 6:Me?
Speaker 1:Yeah.
Speaker 6:How do you suggest trialing these relationships? Like doing the dating before you get married?  Do you take them in as contractors first or what have you seen work well,  if you start solo?
Speaker 1:So how do you trial out a relationship, because like you don't like start a  date by proposing to someone and so you don't immediately like get excited about it.

 Like, Oh, do you like Blockchain? I like Blockchain.

Do you want to sign this  clerky document together and join a four year vesting agreement with me? So one way  as you talked about is that you might contract someone.

So if you end up  having money and you want to try out working with someone, you can do that.

 So a good famous example is actually 37 signals.

So Jason Fried hired David Heinemeier  Hansson off of a forum and basically through that relationship ended up finding a co-founder.

 I would recommend you start off with something small.

You don't immediately start with marriage,  you start with like movie and or whatever.

And so just do a project together.

 And so it might not be the ultimate thing that the company is, but maybe  it's like, Oh, if you're already working on your company, maybe there's some project that  you want to have involved.

I would go, you have lots of other steps before  that.

So number one is like, have a good conversation.

Can we consistently have good  conversations? Can we have disagreements about ideas? Can we discover something new or more interesting  as a result of us interacting? Do we make each other better without placating to  one another? So like having a bunch of conversations, it was a good one.

And  then exchanging of favors.

So maybe the other person has some other ideas and you  have some ideas.

And so right now you're neither one of are quite ready to  give up on whatever it is that you're working on.

I would exchange favors and  take turns working on each other's stuff and get a sense for like, oh, does  this person keep their promises? Do they work really hard? Did they do things that  I'm not good at? Do they compliment me? Et cetera.

There's so many little things  in your interactions that you're basically trying to basically build a working small relationship.

I  think you could start, the conversation would be like, "Hey, I think you might be  a good co-founder can we start doing all this other stuff?" I feel like does  a little forward but is very honest thing.

The habit.

It's like, look, I'll just  be honest with you.

"I'm looking for a co-founder.

You might fit the bill.

Let's  start doing a couple of little things together and spending more time increasing it.

Let's  just put time on the calendar and see what happens." I think this happened with  Tracy.

She's got a podcast, she's the founder of Plan Grid and she talks about  how she had the standing a Google calendar invite with her potential co-founder and they  would just spend a couple of hours every week just brainstorming.

They just thought like,  "Hey, we have a lot of potential between us, let's just like talk about ideas  on a regular basis and see if we come up with anything." Oddly enough, what  actually started the company off is that the person she was dating at the time,  she had like given Google calendar access.

Like that was at that modern step in  the relationship.

And he was like, what's this recurring appointment with this guy that's happening  for several hours every week? What's going on with that? And she's like, oh, we're  trying to think through some ideas for this.

And it turns out it's like building  basically a way of doing construction documents on the iPad.

And he was just like,  "What's wrong with you Tracy? Don't you know, I'm an IOS engineer.

Like, why have  you talked to me about this?" And that's other company got started.

Right here.
Speaker 7:[inaudible] relationships while working remotely.
Speaker 1:Say that again sir?
Speaker 7:While working remotely how would you strengthen those co-founder relationship?
Speaker 1:So if you are working remotely with a team, how do you strengthen these relationships?  So actually it's really interesting.

I talk a little bit about this with Mike.

He's  the head of one of the founders of Zapier on a YC podcast.

But basically  when you're going remote, there's a lot of things that you have to now do  up front in terms of your communication and relationship building that you took for granted  when you just work in a building with someone else.

So number one is like,  trust has to be really high.

You have to be really, really clear about like  what we're doing, what is shipping, what's being done, and making sure everyone understands that  everyone is on the same page.

You have to overshare.

And that's something that a  lot of companies when they're just working together in the same space, get to not  have to practice very well.

It just kind of naturally sort of happens in discussions.

 So remote working.

You basically have to plan it.

You have to deliberately do this  sort of action.

Secondly, you have to be very, very good at written communication.

And  so you actually get really good at saying like, "Hey, I have a problem, I  have an issue, et cetera." But also you have to be really good at giving  people the benefit of the doubt.

Like the people you'll bring on for remote workers,  you have to trust them because they're working from home.

You can't see them.

And  so by default, your relationship with the other remote worker is that I trust you  that I can't see you, but you're going to still do what's best for the  company.

And that's such a powerful feeling to have that you don't realize that you  take it for granted when you just work with someone inside of a building that  immediately changes when you see the person leave and you're like, oh, are they even  here? Are they even doing anything? Et cetera.

So to me, for remote working, all  the stuff that you have to do to state all this stuff ahead of time,  you actually are the only way that you'll be successful at remote working.

And so  I actually think is it's more that if you're working in an office altogether, what  are the things you have to be cognizant that you are being lazy about, right?  That our remote working team is going to be ahead of you on it.

And  so a lot of that is communication, transparency and trust.

Right here.
Speaker 8:Yes, this is great advice.

I'm thinking in terms of as prevention, what about if  you actually going through a conflict and you try to deescalate? Do you have any  tips and asking for a friend?
Speaker 1:So what if you're currently going through a conflict right now, how do you deescalate  the problem? So the first thing is someone has to like recognize as like we  are fighting in an unproductive way.

We have to declare it and we have to  have everyone sort of agree that we're on the same page that like this isn't  working.

I'll give you a tip that we used in our company.

And so, and  then had more to do with productivity, but it ended up resolving a lot of  sort of conflicts.

And so at [Wufu] we basically were like, look, we hated meetings  were remote company and we were dedicating one day out of everyone's work week, do  you customer support.

And then we pushed all the meetings for the company to a  half day on Friday.

So therefore Friday was a half day and one day was  support.

And so you really had engineers having three solid days to do work.

But  we fully believe that three solid days and uninterrupted work is far more productive than  someone pretending to work for 40 hours for the week.

Like we don't interrupt, et  cetera.

And so for that to be effective, we instituted a policy.

It's a 15  minute discussion policy.

So basically it said it's like any person could immediately table a  discussion if it's gone for 15 minutes.

So after it hits 15 minutes you're allowed  to say like, "Hey, you know what? Let's just put this away and we'll discuss  it at the Friday meeting and we'll move on to the other items on the  to do list.

So if you had got into some kind of things that suck,  you should have enough things on your plate that you can just move on and  that you are not going to be stuck by one person.

The result of this  policy was that people would usually sleep on it and the next day they would  just magically be like, "Oh, you know what? I figured something else out.

Or like  that's not a big issue anymore.

Or I don't care that much now that I  got some sleep." And then when we get to Friday to try to go like,  all right, what are all the on resolved issues? There would almost be nothing that  we'd have to talk about.

Because usually allowing people to have a period of time  to cool off and think differently about the problem and realize like, oh there's got  to be a better way to work together.

Made a huge difference.

But I'd say  for you, the first thing is someone has to admit that like this isn't working  well and we need to change this process? And part of this process might be  like, we go through these steps that I've talked about.

And then semi worst case  scenario is like you do couples counseling.

So this is a common thing in the  bay area.

It was super rare in the early days of YC and now it's  become way more common for co-founders to go together and have some kind of intermediary  who would help kind of discuss all those sort of negative things that are going  on in the relationship and help them sort of see one another and realize that  like, hey, you still have shared values and missions.

You just have different ways that  you want to approach it and that there's got to be a way that both  of you can get what you need, whether it's taking turns or making an agreement  or making concession, et cetera.

Last question right here.
Speaker 9:Do you think you can change the attachment style over time?
Speaker 1:Do I think people can change their attachment style over time? I would like to  think so.

I'd like to think that people eventually become secure and not, I would  say my attachment style is definitely avoidant, dismissive.

That's usually my first thing is just  like someone tells you there's a problem, like, no, no, there's no problem.

It's going  to be okay.

It's fine.

We're champions.

That's not get into it just now.

And  then I walk away.

Over time I've realized like that's what I do and I  work really hard to be like, "Okay, my instinct is to want to sleep on  this right now.

Can you honor that for me? And then we will definitely discuss  it tomorrow morning and work on it." And so I wouldn't say that that's as  like getting to the secure part, but at least I'm doing it in a way  that like I recognize my weaknesses and slowly get to the point where it's like,  "Oh, you know what? I don't need to sleep on it.

I can figure out  things a rationally between the two of us right now." That's the goal.

Okay.

Thank  you very much.

I'll let you guys mingle.

[inaudible].
