# Adora Cheung - How to Prioritize Your Time

Adora Cheung:Hello, as Kevin said, my name is Adora.

I'm one of the partners at YC  and I'm going to talk about how to prioritize time.

Time as you know is  precious, especially when you're working on a startup.

Time burns money and money is the  very basic thing that keeps a startup alive.

Not to be too philosophical about it,  but even if your personal burn is super low, you can eat ramen days on  end, which I don't suggest and you don't have to pay yourself for a very  long time.

There's always a high opportunity cost to doing your startup, so it's super  important to use your time the best way possible to maximize your startup's chance for  success.

Which means you need to be really good at identifying and prioritizing tasks that  are going to be the most impactful for your startup's progress, which I've noticed after  going through thousands of weekly updates from startup school founders that a lot of founders  are not doing this well.

So hopefully this will be helpful.

Let me first pre-face  all of this by defining what time I'm talking about.

So obviously there are 24  hours in a day and I'm not here to tell you how to allocate those  hours across your startup versus everything else that is important to you.

Sleep, family, friends,  hobbies and so on and so forth.

Everyone has different situations, so it's hard for  me to, from up here, give you a good generic advice on how to allocate  your time across these things.

I'm just going to assume you're doing what's best for  you, whether it's two, six, 12 hours a day that you decide to work on  your startup.

It doesn't matter to me, for the purpose of this lecture.

I just  want to help you figure out how to spend those two, six or 12 hours  that you've decided to allocate your startup in the best possible way.

All right, so  when it comes to things to work on your startup, my guess is that you  already have something like a task list in which you put new ideas to eventually  work on and you update that very frequently.

So let's start from there, that you  have a task list of things to do.

First, I want to make a real  clear distinction between real and fake startup progress.

This is the easiest way to classify  whether a task goes into the should do or the should not do bucket.

If  it contributes to real startup progress, you should consider doing it, and if it doesn't,  then don't.

This seems trivial at first.

Why would anyone do anything that amounts to  fake startup progress? But let me explain further.

So real startup progress is when you're  really focused on things that really move the needle for your startup and in the  beginning, the best way to show this is through growth, in particular growth of your  primary KPI.

I gave a whole lecture on this a few weeks ago on KPI  and goals.

If you haven't watched it yet, please watch it.

I talk a lot  about primary and secondary KPIs.

There's always a balance between what to focus on.

But  for the purpose of this lecture, I'm just going to refer to the primary KPI  as a thing to focus on growing.

So to summarize, your primary KPI almost always  is either revenue or active users and you should always be setting weekly goals for  this.

To move the needle on the KPIs, the highest leverage thing you can be  doing always comes in the form of tasks that involve talking to users and building  and iterating your product.

Nothing else.

This is in direct contrast with fake startup progress,  which is when founders focus on things that are not directly related to growing your  primary KPI.

So common things I see in weekly updates are things like attending conferences,  focusing on winning awards.

Now [inaudible 00:03:40], optimizing the wrong metrics.

While you may convince  yourself these are good things to focus on, there are actually many steps away from  delivering real value to your customer.

And so if all the things you could be  possibly doing, spending any significant time on any of these things is almost always a  bad idea.

The goal is not to optimize startup vanity, but actually delivering value to  your customer.

Doing the things that will help you directly help you increase your KPI.

 Now that we have one way to filter what tasks you should be working on,  let's go a little bit deeper and figure out how to determine if you're prioritizing  the right tasks.

This at first also seems trivial.

Presumably you're doing what you believe  is high value work.

I mean, nobody ever says, "Oh, let me do the thing  that is going to help my startup the least." Right? But that's what I'm going  to challenge.

There are hundreds of things you could be possibly working on to increase  your primary KPI.

Is what you're working on right now, the best thing you can  do to meet your weekly goal? Or have you tricked yourself into doing something else?  The reason I'm skeptical is because it's actually quite easy for a low value work  to unnoticeably, creep into your schedule.

And it actually takes a lot of work and  effort to not let this happen.

So here's an experiment.

Try journaling in great detail  of each day in the past week, every single hour, so hour by hour, what  is it that you were exactly doing? And be honest on what you thought the  impact was before you actually did it and what it was in increasing your primary  KPI.

I think you'll be surprised by how much of it was actually low value  work.

And the reason is not because you're lazy or I hope not.

It's more  because we tend to be as humans on autopilot.

So we don't give much thought  to what we're doing with our time.

And our natural instinct is actually to go  for low value work because it's usually the easiest and quickest thing to accomplish.

And  it fulfills our desires to check as many things off of a list as possible,  it feels really good to check things off.

But once you're aware of this, preventing  it is actually quite simple, but it does take time, thought and discipline.

So first,  if you aren't already, you should keep a spreadsheet of ideas that can move your  primary KPI and not to be too repetitive, but these tasks are almost always a  variant of two things, right? One, talking to users and two, building product.

Talking to  users helps you with three things, right? It converts them into customers and revenue or  helps you convert them into customers and revenue.

It helps you understand if you're on  the right track or not, and It helps you figure out your product roadmap.

And  then building product actually delivers a solution to the user to see if it actually  translates into more customers in revenue.

So as you come up with these ideas, you  should log them into your spreadsheet and keep doing that as every idea you get.

 But the key is don't do them right away.

Just write them down.

And this  is important because always switching to the thing you just thought of, which always sounds  better now than later causes a ton of whiplash for founders and it's the primary  culprit in making no progress during the week.

So now you're tracking this list.

Then  once we go through each item in your spreadsheet and grade the new and regrade  the old items based on how impactful you think the task would be on achieving  the weekly goal for your primary KPI.

There are three grades you can give to  each task on your list.

High, medium, low.

These definitions are a little arbitrary in  the sense that it's all relative to whatever else is on your list, but in  general, high means that's a task you believe that will help you meet your goal  for the week.

With high probability a medium is you're not sure but with okay  probability you can hit your weekly goal and low is with very low probability.

You'll  see that it's actually pretty easy to figure out what those low and high value  tasks are when you compare them against everything else you could be doing.

Which is  why this exercise, no matter how pedantic it is, is important to do.

So let  me go through an example.

Let's say I am a founder of a SAS software,  generic SAS software company and I just kind of launched it.

My goal for the  next week is just to get five new paying customers.

So here's just a sliver  of things I can do to reach that goal.

At the top you'll see that  the most impactful thing I can do is go to the offices of 10 potential  customers who were actually intro'd to me by friends or whoever, and I know that  if I show up to the office, just from experience, I have a very good  chance of convincing them to buy my product.

And so that's why that's at the  top of the list.

The next few are of medium impact because they involve me  filling up my pipeline, which is one step away from landing new customers but necessary  to do.

I also have the second thing here.

I also have video demos I  can do, which for me aren't as effective as doing in person but worth doing  as well because they do lead to some new customers.

You'll notice that there are  a couple items at the bottom of this which involve programming.

So a very common  mistake technical founders make is to build things first and then go talk to users.

 And according to this list to meet my weekly goal, this means they would be  choosing the least impactful thing to do for that week.

But with this method, if  they're honest about it, they have no choice but to get off their butt and  go talk to users instead.

So along with the impact that it may have on  helping you achieve your weekly goal, we also need to consider a second dimension of  how complex the task is.

That is, how long would it take for you and  your team to complete it? Because there are mini tasks within each category of impact.

 For example, there's like four of here in medium and three in low.

And so  the question is how do I stack rank those within that category.

And so this  dimension of complexity helps.

So we can [inaudible] complexity in three ways.

Easy, medium and  hard.

An easy task is something that you can do in less than a day.

 That means you can do a bunch of easy tasks [inaudible] today.

A medium task  is something that takes one or two days for you to do.

And a hard  task is one that takes many days to do and you may not complete it  within the week.

So once you go grade all of them, you'll have again the  second dimension here where you have impact and then also complexity.

And so now you  can easily stack rank all the tasks on your list, and it's pretty easy to  choose what you should prioritize.

So given, the directive is to hit your weekly goal,  the obvious choice is always to go for the combos of high easy combos and  high medium that is something attached that has high impact and is easy to do.

 You should always do those first and then go to high impact and medium complexity.

 And what you really don't want to do is focus on these bottom things here,  right? Something that has probably very low probability in helping you achieve your goal and  is very hard to do, takes a long time to do.

There's really no point  in doing any of those things.

So just as important as selecting the right tasks  to work on is making sure you don't try to do everything at once.

Pick  enough tasks that you can complete and do well.

Doing too many things means you  won't be able to complete much of the tasks with much conviction and makes it  really hard to show progress from week to week.

How do I know I am  prioritizing my time well? Ultimately, you know you've done well if you're hitting your weekly  goals consistently.

So you're doing well if your graphs look like that.

Sadly, most of  us have graphs that look like this.

These troughs of sorrow where it's decreasing and  you're kind of like stable for a while at the bottom.

That's when you start  doubting yourself as like, "Am I working really on the right thing or not?" And  so what can we do about this? Or how do we know? So one way  is to do what you're already doing in startup school, which is writing weekly updates  and being really consistent and honest about it.

So the key components of weekly update  is pretty straight forward.

What was your weekly goal? Did you succeed? If not, what  was the biggest blocker of the growth? What did you do and what was the  predicted impact and what was the actual impact and what did you learn this week?  What were the big learnings this week? And then by doing an ongoing evaluation of  your weekly updates, it will help you improve how you select and prioritize tasks.

Once  in a while you should review all your weekly updates, like from beginning the first  one you ever wrote for your startup to the current one, to the last one.

 And check for things like, do you feel like you're learning fast enough? Are you  predicting the impact of each task well? Did you let low value work or even  worse, fake progress creep into your schedule? Is your biggest blocker the same thing for  every week? A lot of people actually get in a rough spot where they're not  learning anything new and just doing the same thing over and over without realizing it.

 Reviewing your updates will help you realize that and will force you to try to  get yourself out of bad loop.

In terms, this last one, in terms of completing  tasks, if you're finding yourself always running out of time to complete tasks, you felt  was totally possible to complete in the week, I have two suggestions for you.

One  is perhaps your task is actually too complex and you should break it down into  medium and easy tasks.

The second one is, maybe it is that your schedule needs  to be rejiggered a little bit.

I recommend a modified version of what we call  the maker's manager schedule, which was popularized by Paul Graham, the essay is linked in  the startup school library.

The basic idea is this, there are high context switching costs  to different types of tasks.

For example, coding and meetings, like talking to users.

Meaning  it's hard to restart and ramp back up on a task, especially like coding and  it's costly to exit at a time when things are finally flowing and you're getting  stuff done.

So if you find yourself switching back and forth too much, it may  be that you're wasting time and need to rejigger things so you have a continuous  chunk of time devoted to each one.

So many people will actually divide their week  into days, right? So one full day they'll just spend coding and the next full  day they'll spend meetings and talking to users and so forth.

Instead of me having  like one hour here, one hour there, one hour there.

For people who need to  get more stuff done in the day, then they'll do half the day they'll spend  coding and the half the day they'll spend talking to users.

So this is, for  any solo founders out there.

This is incredibly important for you because you don't have  the opportunity to divvy up the work across multiple people.

So it's really important to  get your schedule correct.

All right, so I'll end with one final piece of advice,  which is moving fast.

So in the beginning of your startup, your primary objective is  to move as quickly as possible to prove that you're building something people want.

The  faster you figure this out, the faster you can pivot into something or have the  confidence that you have product market fit and can start scaling and building a tremendous  business.

So making decisions thoughtfully and quickly is super important.

Time is often wasted in  indecisiveness.

The key is to be okay with making a wrong choice and learning fast.

 So of course choosing the right thing to do at the get go is the  best thing possible.

But it's also the case that a person who chooses the wrong  task to work on today but moves quickly, learns why it's wrong and moves to  the right one is a better off than the person that takes forever to choose  the right tasks to work on and as twiddling their thumbs working on low value  stuff in the meantime, that's all I have today on how to prioritize time to  summarize what you should be doing.

Always be working on things that directly impact your  primary KPI.

Do the things that have the highest impact to meeting your weekly goal.

 And that usually always means what? Talking to users and building product.

Any questions?
Speaker 2:What do you think about using OKRs at this stage?
Adora:So the question is what do I think about using OKRs.

I think the concept  of OKRs is good.

Meaning you have key objectives and then tasks.

I think at  a startup you don't need them.

You just need something much more simple than that,  which is here is my weekly goal and here are the tasks I want completed.

 And then over the time as you build out your team and you have like  50 60 people and you need to manage that organization, OKRs are a great tool  to use.

Yeah.

Yep, back there.
Speaker 3:If you do not have product market fit and most users are turning, where should  you focus? Like [inaudible] for example?
Adora:So the question is, if you don't have product market fit and users are turning,  what should you focus on? That's a good question.

So you should focus on definitely  finding what the problem is first.

So what is the problem that you're solving and  then what is the solution to solve that problem? And in that stream of thought,  it's finding 10 users.

Like the common advice we give is find 10 users that  really love your product.

Do that first before you start trying to grow.

So there  are some things that you need to do before you start, you know, trying to  scale the business.

Yep.
Speaker 4:[inaudible] B2B hard tech and my first Prudential client requires like 400 times the amount  the amount of production than I'm currently producing.

How would you prioritize paying the funds?
Adora:So the question is he's running a B2B hard tech company and to get users  you just need a lot of funds to get going.
Speaker 4:I have one, I mean he needs 400 times what I can actually [crosstalk 00:18:07].

 [inaudible] funds.
Adora:Okay.

So he has one user but he needs funds to deliver the amount of  product that the user wants.

I think there's a long answer to this.

I'm trying  to figure out the short answer.

The long answer.

Well here's the short answer.

There  is a talk in startup school from the last one with Eric Migicovsky who is  the founder of Pebble and he goes through all the steps that you should think  about before you need funding so that you have enough proof when you do go  to investors [inaudible 00:18:36].

But to more directly answer your question, I think what you  want to do is start getting more customers in the sense that not delivering the  product but in the sense of getting presales or contracts.

Because if you get more  of the, and it would be great if they're prepaid too, because getting a prepaid  means that maybe you don't even need an investor to actually build the product.

So  try to do those presales and presales shows good demand, good demand, investors love.

It  de-risks the whole entire thing for them.

And so it'd be much easier for you  to do fundraising if you can get the prepaid contracts as well, then maybe you  don't even need, you're in a much better position with investors for sure, but maybe  you don't even need them.

All right.

Yep.

Right here.
Speaker 5:I'm a little [inaudible] in couple of things that you said.

One mainly [inaudible] [inaudible]  rush out and pick them up and go see 10 people and started learning from  that and prioritizing your time.

Right? And at the very bottom you had key features  as being the ones that you took the least amount of effort, and 20% low  key activity.

But if your market is telling...

Customers are calling you [inaudible] buy your  product [inaudible] are there.

[inaudible] that can become your priority rather than being at the  very bottom?
Adora:Okay.

So I think the question is, I showed an example of which they're one  of, one of the things that was up more at the bottom was I should  build this key feature.

And so the question is why don't you build that when,  if that's what the market is telling you.

So the way I think about progress  in the startup is for one, not to get ahead of yourself.

So the example  I gave was, my goal is just to get five new customers.

How am I  going to get that? Building a key feature like that might get me a thousand  customers, it might, but really, I just want to get five right now, but there  was that low probability that it might get me a thousand customers and so I  want to do the thing that are most sure to hit my weekly goal.

At  some point, my weekly goal is going to be a 1000 new customers in which  I would probably stack rank that higher.

Now the thing on the chart, actually, let  me just go back to it, this chart, right? So what you'll see here is  that I'm coding the big feature, but what I actually have here is I'm getting  feedback from users on the big feature, so I don't really know that this is  going to do anything, but if I go talk to all my existing users and  go validate that first, then and I do validate that that's why it's medium up  here, then I can pull up this task up much, much higher.

All right.

Yes.
Speaker 6:You've probably seen this executed a lot of times.

Do you have any examples of  a startup kind of misinterpreting this structure? Like using it in a way that was  ultimately less helpful or like doing it in a way that wasn't necessarily helping them  get to that next small [inaudible 00:21:33]? How can this be misinterpreted? Like how do  we avoid that?
Adora:The question is how can this framework be misinterpreted and send them off in the  wrong direction.
Speaker 6:Have you seen it be misinterpreted or is this just pretty foolproof?
Adora:I think the main thing is being honest with yourself about where the current state  of your company is.

What is your actual weekly goal, and how much time something  actually takes.

I think some people sometimes overestimate the time it takes, or again, they  let other types of work get in the way of the one or two things  that they need to do that week because it's just easy to do.

So that's  what I was saying, we just get on, like our brains go on autopilot all  the time.

And so the framework kind of whittles away over time and that's how  it can get a little bit wonky.
Speaker 7:Is this supposed to be like a company wide thing or is this more like  four or five[inaudible 00:22:30]
Adora:So the question is should this be a company wide thing or for like a  small team? So when I talk, this is for like really early stage startups.

You've  just launched or about to launch and you've got these weekly goals.

I think that  these can be, this is a framework that you can use for teams also.

So  it's a little bit hard as you have many teams in a company and the  structure gets more complex so it's a little bit hard to keep it that simple.

 But that's, when someone mentioned about OKR is it's like a good way to kind  of structure progress in a company.

Yeah, for sure.

I'm talking about super early stage,  whatever the stage most people are in startup school.

All right, two more questions.
Speaker 8:Yeah.

Do you have any metric that you can decide and decide about that it  is [inaudible] prioritizing time? Because you need more people in your team.
Adora:So the question is, is there a way to tell, like a metric to tell  whether you're, if you're not making progress, it's not because you're not prioritizing time.

Well  it's because you're actually just, you need people, you need bodies.

I think if you  go back to what I was saying like when you're evaluating all the weekly updates  and there's really no room for improvements there, then that's a sign.

I do hesitate  to suggest that you just hire people to solve the problems.

It might be that  case, but hopefully it's something that the founders have done themselves already and that they  can just off, like that's the thing that they need to offload versus something that  maybe software can be done like software can solve or just you know, team is  not working well together or you know, time is not being used well.

Yeah.

All  right, last question right here.
Speaker 9:You typically advice not to buy advertising at first.

Just to speak with customers and  try to get those customers.

Talking to them.

When is the right time to start  really an advertising campaign for a start up?
Adora:Okay, we at YC do not advocate you doing any kind of paid marketing like  buying ads.

And so the question is obviously there is at some point there's a  right time for this and one is the right time.

So for us what we  say is the right time is usually when you have product market fit and you're  ready to scale and you've already done the experiments necessary to show that your CAC  is reasonable for whatever the revenue is coming during the per user basis.

Usually what  we see, when we say don't do paid advertising, what we really, really, really mean  is what we...

The mistake that people make is to get the first hundred users  or the first, even first 10 users they got the go buy a lot of  ads and I think it's a reflection of bad, usually a bad founder market fit  if you don't know where to find those first 10 users, especially if it's a  consumer company.

But even for a B2B type enterprise company, hopefully you have talked to  at least all those kinds of users and you are building, you've built something in  which someone has at least committed to using the product and paying for the product.

 Cool.

All right.

Okay.

Last question.
Speaker 10:[crosstalk] teams trying to do everything [inaudible]
Adora:That's a good question.

So should we follow up with our team to make sure  we're all on track? I think weekly stand ups are great.

It depends on how,  I don't know, like for a 100% company.

That's too many for [inaudible 00:00:26:14], but  say four or five, six person team weekly stamps are great.

Some people would do  daily stand ups or some people do even two stand ups a day.

Personally I  think those are not as effective because to make progress, it takes time.

And so  even if you are making progress, it's hard to see it like in one day  chunks.

But for sure one week stand ups are great.

And reviewing this with everybody  and getting everyone on the same page.

Getting everyone on the same page in your  company, by the way, on the definition of your primary KPI is super important.

You'll  be surprised how many companies where team members just have varying levels of definition.

And  then once you get that set, then having everyone understand what the goals of the  company are and then what are the tasks we should be working on.

So cool.

 All right.
Speaker 11:Thanks Adora.
