#  Kevin Hale - How to Evaluate Startup Ideas Pt.2

Kevin Hale:This is going to be part two of a talk I gave at the very  beginning of Startup School on evaluating startup ideas.

The thing to know about both of  these talks is we've been talking about them from the point of view of the  investor.

Basically, it was helpful, I thought, to explain to founders how investors evaluate startup  ideas and looking at that structure so that they can better understand their own ideas,  opportunities, and then in this presentation, present them better to the people that they want  to get excited.

A quick recap, in the first part I basically say a startup  idea is a hypothesis for why your company is going to grow really quickly.

That  hypothesis must compose of three different parts; the problem, the solution and the insight.

The  basic parts is your problem should be pretty big, pretty pervasive, have a lot of  these characteristics to make it feel like there's a very big market that a lot  of people have the problem.

The only thing you need to know about the solution  is that you should not start with the technology.

You should start with a problem.

 Lastly, you're looking to have something that's going to make your company unique and have  some kind of unfair advantage that we call an insight that will show why your  company will grow faster than other companies.

I talked about five different types of unfair  advantages that your company can have and what are the benchmarks for meeting them.

The  thing to keep in mind about understanding and creating this startup idea is that I  don't need you to do all the work, to lay all of that out in  detail.

That's stuff that you'll want to know and keep in mind, but a really  good investor will do that on their own.

They'll hear what you're talking about and  extrapolate.

What I'm going to cover in this presentation is how do you package up  that hypothesis? How do you take all the things that you understand about your company  and your startup idea and how do you present it to an investor so that  they can make a decision that's in your favor? This is the YC Startup application,  and basically, this is the application, all the questions that we ask that YC partners  will use to evaluate your startup.

Down here when you're filling out the YC application,  we actually link to a couple of things, and one of them is how to  apply successfully.

I can't tell, because I read so many applications but it feels like  founders are not reading that essay.

It was written by Paul Graham in 2009 and  almost everything in there still holds to this day, and people still make mistakes on  it.

I'm just going to point out some stuff and really punch it in here  while I have your attention.

Here's a quote from that essay.

"Basically, we believe for  every company that we will interview at YC, we bet there's probably another company that's  just as good as them out there, but they messed up on the application and  we didn't realize it.

We didn't invite them." Basically, the reason is because they didn't  express their idea clearly.

That's it.

You might think, "Oh, I didn't show off all  that complex stuff about my startup idea and that's why they didn't pick me." I  want you to know that's not true.

The first thing I want you to keep  in mind is I do not need you to sell me as a YC partner.

 A good investor...

So an average investor, what they do is they talk to you  when you tell them about your idea and it feels like they're poking holes.

All  the questions they ask about what's all the reasons why this could go wrong.

A  good investor does it the other way around.

They hear what you say and they  imagine and they use your optimism and they use knowing that some kind of rare  event has to happen for you to become a billion-dollar company, and they try to  imagine all those rare events that could possibly happen to you.

Then they pitch that  path back to you.

We are really good at selling ourselves so you don't need  to do that.

The thing is, you guys are kind of bad at selling things  in the beginning, right? What I need you to understand is that I'm trying to  evaluate these three statements when I'm hearing your idea.

Do I understand it? Am I  excited by it? Do I like the team and do I want to work with  them? Surprise! In your weekly updates when you do your group sessions these are the  questions that we ask you to ask one another.

It's basically the questions that we're  trying to figure out for ourselves, and we're hoping that every week when you talk  with other companies, you are practicing getting feedback and understanding whether you're able to instill  this in other people.

Your goal is just to be clear.

I will do everything  else.

Back to the application.

These are the only two things we're going to focus  on today.

What do I put in the what's my company going to make? How  do I describe my company in a very efficient manner? The first way to do  this is to be clear.

The reason we focus on this is because a clear  idea is the foundation for growth.

What I mean by that is that the best  companies in YC or around the world grow organically.

They grow by word of mouth.

 What does word of mouth look like? It looks like this.

It's basically I talk  about your company, what you're doing, making, et cetera, and I'm the most interesting person  at the dinner table.

I tell it to other people and those people want to  tell other people.

That's it.

Word of mouth is something where I remember what you  do, I talk about it enthusiastic and it spreads on its own.

Marketing and advertising,  it's a tax, I believe, companies pay because they did not make something remarkable.

Now,  before anyone can remember at the dinner table what you do, they have to understand.

 I have very simple rules for how to make things easy to understand.

This will  sound familiar if you're familiar with an essay I wrote on how to design a  better pitch deck, and I'm going to focus on basically saying that the way I  talk about designing a pitch deck actually works for ideas and lots of other things.

 The way I make things easy to understand on a pitch deck or a slide  is to make it legible, I make it simple and I make it obvious.

In  today's presentation we're just going to focus on making your idea legible, which is going  to sound interesting, for clarity.

In my essay, I talked about how at demo day  when our startups are presenting to a room full of a thousand investors it's kind  of an interesting audience.

Number one, the audience is filled with really old people.

They  tend to not have very good eyesight as a result.

They all can't sit in  the front row like you lovely people.

Some of them have to sit in the  way back and stand up.

That means if you create a legible slide, they have  to be ones that even old people in the back row with bad eyesight can  read.

How does that apply to a legible idea? Well, basically you are designing a  slide that democratizes the idea, so people who are blind or people who are ignorant,  you're basically designing something for everyone in the room, not just the ones in the  first row.

A legible idea can be understood by people who know nothing about your  business.

That will make things very clear to the widest possible audience.

This is super  important because you will talk about your company more than anything else.

It is actually  the thing that we are really great at at Y Combinator.

We have our companies  constantly practice talking about their startup.

Startup School curriculum is designed around helping you constantly  practice talking about your startup.

This is because you are going to need a lot  of people if you're going to become a billion-dollar company.

You are trying to find  a co-founder.

You have to have a way of talking about your company clearly, whether  you're getting users or investors or employees or shareholders.

You have to get really good  at this, and you have to be able to do it quickly and efficiently.

Here  are things to avoid that makes things not clear, that makes your idea muddy.

The  first is ambiguity, so that's obviously the opposite of clear or straightforward.

Something's a little  abstract.

Something can be interpreted in two ways, and therefore, it might take a question  to understand what you do.

Complexity.

I have a very specific definition of complexity.

If  you look at the root word, simple and complex come from the same root and  having to do with twists or braids.

Things that are simple are ones that have  one braid and things that are complex have multiple braids.

They're intertwined with one another.

 A simple idea is one idea that does not fold.

A complex idea are ideas  that are intertwined.

Simplicity means you are not trying to mix a bunch of things  in your description.

Mystery.

This is an odd one.

What I mean is anything where  it's like I'm not going to understand what is going on when you're talking about  your company.

Jargon is one, obviously.

Any words that I don't understand.

Anything that's fake,  like indefinite pronouns, so if you just use this, et cetera, and you don't describe  what those nouns are and then things that you just suggest but aren't explicit about.

 The last is ignorable.

What I mean by that is there is some language that  we will just ignore.

In UX design, people will create a sort of blindness to  things that they don't want to look at or they don't find to be important  value.

For example, ad blindness is a big one that people sort of understand.

The  thing is when you're talking about ideas, there's a way of using language that is  also easily ignorable.

Things that just won't stick in your head.

Things like marketing speak.

 There's probably lots of stuff that you've heard about that.

MBA speak, weird kind of  like puff yourself up.

Talk that doesn't give any extra information and then buzz words.

 When you say certain types of words that as an investor I've heard over and  over again, or I will equate with zero information or value then I will ignore  them.

The result is parts of your pitch will end up being not even heard  by me and therefore, I will not remember them.

What you want to do is  be conversational.

A great pitch is one where you can tell it to your mom  and she gets it.

She's proud of you.

She's not going to shake her head.

 That means it's got to be conversational, and that's really good for word of mouth  because we talk in normal conversational speak.

We don't talk like an MBA.

We don't  talk like CEOs all the time, so it's best to talk conversationally.

Again, avoid jargon.

 Words that are only understood or used by your industry.

No preamble.

I'll have some  examples of this, but if you want to be clear, let's go straight to what  you want to talk about.

Let's not have a winding path to eventually getting there.

 The last one, and this one's a big one, is being reproducible.

When I hear  your idea, can I imagine it in my mind? Can I see what I would  have to build to create your company? If I don't have that, then I have  no picture in my head about what your company does, and until I have that  picture, I can't ask any of the questions that helps me understand if I'm excited  about you or understand other nuances of your business.

To make things reproducible I need  to know nouns.

I need to have objects that I'm going to imagine in my  head.

There's three types of nouns that I should understand from your startup idea.

The  first one is what are you making? That should be really clear.

What is the  problem, and then who is the customer? The two are kind of related to the  market, but I should have these kind of three nouns in my head.

Let's go  through some examples.

This says we are going to transform the relationship between individuals and  information.

This sucks.

The thing is we see this all the time.

Number one, all  the nouns that you see down here are abstract.

They're ideas.

I can't reproduce, based  off of this.

It has zero informational value.

I still have to ask questions to  answer the three nouns that I need to have.

This is a bad description for  a company.

We will see stuff that starts like this when we ask to describe  what your company's going to make.

I don't even want to read it, but basically  it starts talking about the story of the company or basically it's like in the  beginning there was this problem and we're going to go through this issue.

Then there's  these bad guys and they showed up, but then who's going to save us? We're  finally here to save...

And you're like, "I have to read another thousand applications.

That's  not going to work for me." This is the description on the actual application that  Airbnb put to YC.

Airbnb is the first online marketplace that lets travelers book rooms  with locals instead of hotels.

It's concise.

It's descriptive.

I understand what they're building.

I  have a sense for what they're making and then I can start thinking about my  other two ideas of whether I'm excited about it and then am I going to  like this team.

Here's Dropbox.

Synchronizes files across your or your team's computers.

The thing  about this is it's refreshing but also there's no pretense.

They aren't playing defense.

I  see a lot of company descriptions where they're like, "I'm worried about this," or, "I've  gotten this kind of feedback." They give up clarity to make themselves look bigger and  blow themselves up or make themselves try to look more interesting.

They're trying to protect  themselves against something way ahead of time.

The whole problem is usually what it ends  up doing is it brings me farther away from you, all that padding that you've  put on yourself.

Here's a description from a company in the current batch.

Luminize building  x-ray vision for soldiers and first responders.

We don't have to go deep into the  details.

I don't need to understand how they exactly do this, et cetera.

This creates  a foundation for my curiosity.

Now I will start from here to try to figure  out oh, how do you do this? Is this the right team to do this?  How far along are they? Do they have traction? Do they have customers? I start  going down the route of asking all the right questions based off this one description.

 This is a good one.

Here's another one.

So [Vahan] in the current batch is  building LinkedIn for the next billion internet users.

It doesn't perfectly connect me to what  they're sort of making, but I'm intrigued.

I'm excited about someone building into LinkedIn and  I know it's some kind of social network for business people.

Now I'm curious about  how.

I don't need you to answer how in the description, but I understand what  you're doing and then now I can start making questions in my head about how  would I evaluate whether this is working or successful or promising or not.

Is this  the right team? Do they have a certain amount of traction, et cetera.

It gets  me on the right track.

The reason I use this example is because we have  a lot of companies who try to use the X for Y, and what I  mean by that is LinkedIn for whatever or Uber for blank or Airbnb for blank.

 That X for Y is super useful because it allows you to shortcut business model  and some kind of complex behavior and then attach it to some other vertical or  something that you're trying to make work.

X for Y is okay, but most people  abuse it or do it incorrectly, so I'm going to give you some tips.

First,  should you use X for Y? Sorry for the illegibility.

Number one, is X a  household name? This should be like a billion-dollar company.

You can't use your uncle's pet  shoe store as the X for this because people don't know your uncle's pet shoe  store and they don't know if it's successful or not.

Everyone, as many people should  know about this as possible and for an investor it should be clear that it's  a billion-dollar company or opportunity.

Everyone has to agree that it is successful, so you  could have a really big X, everyone knows about it, but it's infamous, so that  people don't think it's successful so be careful of that.

Does Y want X? Is  it really clear why the target that you're going after wants this kind of model  applied to it? This kind of solution applied to it, whether it's Airbnb four or  Airbnb or Uber four, et cetera.

It should be really clear that that's a segment  that's either missing it, it's not being served well by the other one, and also  that those people want to have that kind of model.

The third one is Y  should be a huge market, so if you're building X for Y and the last  part doesn't sound like a really big business, that's not going to work well for  you.

You're essentially saying that you are something, but that's a subset.

What we want  to make sure is that subset feels like it could be really, really big.

If  you choose a subset that sounds like it's going to be really, really small, investors  won't be as interested.

It means that I'm worried that you will not have enough  potential headroom to grow to become a billion-dollar company.

Here's an example that doesn't work.

 We had a company in the batch that started off by describing themselves as buffer  for Snapchat.

Buffer is a nice company, but definitely smaller than Snapchat, so don't want  to do that.

Basic summary for this section, lead with what, not why or how.

 You don't need all that other stuff.

That stuff gets in the way of your  clarity, for the most part.

I'll read a thousand applications every single batch and it's  a really hard thing to do.

Basically even though it's my job, it's really, really  difficult to have that much focus and attention across all these different applications.

I need  some empathy.

I need you to help me out.

What we want is that when  I bring up your application and I'm looking at it, let's make our intimate time  really pleasurable.

Let's make the time that I spend on your idea very efficient.

I'll  look at it, I'll understand really clearly, I'll move around your application.

I'll be like,  "Oh, I'm kind of excited.

Maybe there's going to have this," and I'll look at  that part and I'm like, "Oh, they do have it.

That sounds awesome.

Oh, what  about this? Ooh, that sounds awesome too." What we don't want is me to go  like, "Oh, what are they talking about?", then I have to go to your website.

 I'm like, "Hm, don't know what they're talking about.

I don't know how this works."  I go back to it.

I try to figure something else out.

I try to  see if some other partner might understand what you're doing, et cetera.

Super inefficient.

Where  is there going to be room for me to get excited as a result? To  be efficient we need to be concise.

Concise.

The best way I want to keep  this in mind is to use some examples.

Here's some things I need you to  keep in mind.

Yes, I want you to be concise.

Use as few words as  possible and what I want you to understand is the concision actually gives me secondary  information about you as a team.

It lets me; 1) Know that you have thought  deeply about your idea.

Because you've thought so deeply about it and because you've practiced  talking about it so much and you've gotten really good at getting people excited and  understanding your thing really quickly, you probably have figured out how to do it in  the short amount of time.

It lets me know that this is a founder that  has thought deeply about the idea.

The other thing about being concise is it shows  me that you are efficient, and if you're efficient with your words then you're probably  efficient with your thoughts.

That means you're probably also efficient with your actions.

What that  means is that I will start to believe that you understand what is most important  about your business, you understand how to communicate it clearly and you might actually know  how to always figure out the most important part of what to do about your  company to make it grow, to make it work, et cetera.

There's some minimum stuff  that we want to have, even though we're trying to be as concise as possible.

 Again, I want to understand the nouns, so if we're so concise that I can't  understand these, then your concision is too much.

The other is I want to get  to this point when I read the concision or the short version of whatever it  is you're talking about, because again, I know there's a hundred thousand reasons why your  company is great, but when I'm reading your application I'm only going to maybe remember  two to three of them, so we have to try to make sure those most  important ones come up to the top.

This is a real Startup School company description.

 It's an online e-commerce store.

I can picture what it is, but again, it's not  a description that helps me get excited about it.

It doesn't help me lead to  all the other things.

I have to do now more work to understand why this  is fast growing and has potential.

I also don't know, based on this, some nouns.

 I don't know exactly who the customer is.

Is it people that they're selling stuff  to or are they making an e-commerce store for other shop owners? There's ambiguity.

IT  security services.

This is most of the descriptions that we see on Startup School.

It  makes it really, really hard for us to understand it.

A meritocratic decision support system.

 The thing is I want to know for what? For whom? I don't even understand  what the problem is that they're solving, based off of this.

Is it because a  lot of people have not merit...

Basically I have to ask so many questions in  my head to figure out why did they get to this sort of description.

Learn  and sharing knowledge about data science and artificial intelligence.

Sounds more like a mission.

I  can't tell what the product is and how they're starting to go about it.

I  couldn't reproduce this.

If I had 10 companies build, based off this description, you'd have  10 very different products.

The other thing that's odd about company descriptions is you guys  tend to capitalize and make proper nouns very weird words and phrases.

You should not  do that.

It's not like a magazine title, and it makes me think sometimes you're  emphasizing the wrong things.

You're thinking that data science and artificial intelligence is the thing  that's going to make me excited and the thing is like those are the buzz  words, those are the solutions, and it makes me worried that you haven't started with  a problem.

Let's go into an example of how to adjust a description.

Here's a  much longer one.

Our company will make low-cost and low-power consumption medical devices based on  artificial intelligence and IOT suitable for sub-Saharan communities.

Relatively clear.

I could understand it reading  it, but it's not the most concise form of this, and I feel like there's  a lot of things get in the way.

When I work with companies to help  shrink and reduce and improve their descriptions so that I will get the most out  of it...

I want to talk you through the process.

The first thing I want  to do is just figure out what are the nouns in the description.

Here we  go.

Our company medical devices for sub-Saharan communities.

Oh, shit! We're almost done, right? Everything  else that gets added on here, whatever verb, adjectives or adverbs you want, you want  to be really careful.

You want to know is it getting maximum punch for this?  Really, the verb is going to be...

Usage is you're making something, et cetera.

Usually  it's going to be whatever the product.

The verb is like the thing that we're  making.

If we're thinking about this in an active voice structure.

The subject, the verb  and then the object, the customer, the market, the people who we're going after.

Everything  else, if we add anything back to this, I really want to be really careful  about why we're going to add back to it.

Is that going to be the  stuff that makes me excited? The artificial intelligence IOT-suitable stuff.

That's like how they're [inaudible]  the technology, and I'm more worried that they're going to use buzz words to describe  it.

Hopefully that's like a secret weapon that you have, but I bet it's not  the defining characteristics of whether this company is successful or not.

Then up here I  see two modifiers for medical devices; low cost, low power consumption.

Low cost, I can  definitely see.

That's super interesting.

If you make a low-cost device in a sub-Saharan community,  then I'm like, "Oh, that's interesting.

That's really interesting because it's hard just to make  something for developing countries, but to make it so that it's actually affordable for them?  That'd be interesting." The low-power consumption, I can give or take there.

I'd have to  know more about the company to know whether that's actually crucial to understanding whether this  company has an unfair advantage or not.

If I was to redo this it would  come out to we create affordable medical devices for sub-Saharan Africa.

Some people are going  to be very squeamish about this.

A lot of founders are worried it's like, "You're  putting me in a box, man! It's too reductive.

My business is complex.

I do  a lot of things, and a lot of things make me great.

I want to  tell you all of them." The thing is, you don't have time, and I know  it.

As an investor, there's no investor that thinks any business is simple and easy.

 I just don't think that from the default.

You shouldn't be worried that I'm going  to think something small of it.

Again, you want to be careful of the defense  on here...

Once I get to this, then I'll start asking the other questions.

It  creates that foundation for curiosity.

All right.

We're pretty much at the end.

The best  way to help me, and I would love for you to help me, is to  be clear and concise.

Thank you very much.

All right.

So, we'll do a couple  of questions about this presentation, and then I'll have Adora join me and then we'll  answer questions about anything.

Right here.
Speaker 2:Thanks for the presentation, Kevin.

You talked a lot about what is presenting an application,  but you also hear a lot of pitches, especially in demo day.

What, in your  opinion, are the killer tips to make a great pitch and get people to like  you in a demo day?
Kevin:So, he's asking about I talked a lot here about writing the idea for the  application, how that might be different for companies who are pitching or presenting to investors  on a demo day.

What are things that we look for.

I talk about, in  that essay that I wrote how to pitch, how to design a pitch deck and  talk about how to present the ideas.

The main thing to keep in mind is  that...

So let me describe the situation.

So, demo day at Y Combinator, it's like  1000 people in the room and you have two minutes to talk about your company  and show what you've built to get them excited, and then there's going to be  200 other companies that will do the same thing on the stage.

It's an extremely  hard problem.

In two minutes, what do you get across? How do we get it  so that in two minutes, a company on average will then raise 1.5 million dollars  after demo day? The thing to keep in mind is that, yes, there's a hundred  reasons why your company is great.

You cannot say all of them in two minutes.

 You can't say them in a short conversation when you're meeting a bunch of the  investors inside of the room.

There's like maybe five to six points that are really,  really great about your company.

Maybe the investor will remember one or two of them.

 One of them has to be remembering what you do.

The goal of you being  on stage is not to say all the things that's great about your company.

It's  to get people to want to have a conversation with you, to say, "I can't  ignore having a conversation with that person." That's what a great pitch does.

What that  means is you don't make the slides be the thing that they remember.

You want  to make yourself.

It's about your presence, the way you talk, how confident you are,  et cetera.

Basically, do you present yourself in a way that people go, "I want  to interact with you."? The presentation is more about making the founders look formidable and  impressive.

They're using language that everyone understands and is clear, but feels inevitable.

The goal  is not to do all this fancy stuff.

It's to do very simple fundamentals and  talk about them in a way so that everyone will understand.

Right there.
Speaker 3:I applied a couple times, and the one question is always the bane of my  existence is the what's the surprising or amusing thing that you've noticed about the world.

 Could you provide some clarity in terms of what you're looking for there? Is it  something about business or is it something witty? I spend way too much time on  that question.
Kevin:We have a question on the application to YC that is about explain what you-
Speaker 3:It's like what's something or amusing that you [crosstalk]
Kevin:Yeah, so share something surprising or amusing that you've noticed about the world.

He's saying  I'm having a hard time with the question, so any tips about that.

Again, we  at YC, we don't really judge ideas.

I talked a lot about how to present  your idea, but the idea is a reflection of how you think.

Everything that we  have in the application is to try to understand more about the team and the  people who are behind the company.

A question like that is very obvious.

It lets  us know how do you think about stuff? What do you find interesting or amusing?  Part of it is that YC is optimized to spend time with lots of people  every single week for dinner, and I want to spend time with people I like,  people who are not assholes and they're kind of interesting.

That kind of question...

It's  basically a dating question.

It's letting me know, "Oh, I want to buy this guy  dinner!" Right here.
Speaker 4:In my example it's a very specific financial problem that I'm trying to attack, so  should I work on trying to make that very complex and very specific problem something  that anyone understands or should I talk to the right people that understand that type  of problem?
Kevin:Gotcha.

The question is he's working on a very complex fintech solution or app, and  he's wondering it's like how do I balance this talking to the right people so  I can use jargon and who understand the complexity versus making a version of the  idea that everybody can sort of understand.

The answer is you have to do both.

 Everyone that you're talking to; industry, your users, customers or your business partners, you get  a shortcut with them, and that's most of the people you're going to interact with.

 The thing to know about that is you need to have that developed, that customer/business  partner speech, so that you're efficient in talking with them.

The thing is you also  have this other one, if you're interested in outside investment, having the press want to  talk about you et cetera.

You need to have a good story-telling narrative for non-experts.

 Really, it is not one or the other, it is how you have to do  both.

The thing is for fintech people, because there's so much around all these other  people who just understand this stuff, they rarely practice this other thing because they just  assume it's always going to be like that.

When they come to YC, it's the  first time they want money from investors who might not know about their space or  they want to talk to press who's not going to understand what they're doing, et  cetera.

Right here sitting down.
Speaker 5:How do the best, most memorable applications make you feel?
Kevin:How do the best, most memorable applications make me feel? Probably the best ones make  me go like, "Fuck! I want to joint their company!" That's like the best ones,  right? It's like, "Man, these guys seem really cool, they're super smart.

I feel like  I'll learn a lot of stuff from them.

Man, how do I get on their  bandwagon?" I'm thinking about quitting YCs.

That would be like the best ones possible.

In  the second tier, it's really just like I'm energized, because when I'm reading tons of  applications I just don't understand what's going on or I feel like people wasted a  lot of time on the wrong stuff.

I'm just getting frustrated.

When I hit an  application where all of a sudden it goes like, oh, it's a breath of fresh  air and I like I want to spend time with them.

I want to ask  them a bunch of questions.

I get very curious, and then I want to jump  around the room.

I'm a very active guy, so I think if Adora got excited,  she'd drink a glass of water, something like that.

Really, the best ones are the  ones that makes us wish we had done the company or that we would join  them.

That's the best.

Right here.
Speaker 6:If the why or the how are very important for the idea, how can you  include them?
Kevin:How can I what?
Speaker 6:Include them.
Kevin:Oh, okay.

I talk a lot about focusing on the what and then avoid the  how and the why, but they might be really important.

How do I include them?  You will not include them in the description.

They will be included elsewhere.

There's questions  on the application that ask you about how are you going to get your users,  what is the insight that you understand the business that no one else does, how  you came across this, et cetera.

There's opportunities elsewhere.

The one thing to keep in  mind is I would highly recommend trying to keep your answers within one to two  paragraphs, at the most.

That makes for an application that's very skimable by me.

The  whole thing is the how and why is important, but you can't just say it  all at once.

Sometimes you talk to someone and they're telling you a story but  they're trying to tell everything about everything all at once.

It feels like it's not  giving you time to breathe or think.

You want to avoid that context.

Right over  there.

Enthusiastic curly hair.
Speaker 7:How do you know a company's on the right track on getting a product market  fit?
Kevin:How? That sounds like a together question, but I'll answer it.

How do you know  if a company's on the right path to product market fit? If you have to  ask a question, "Do I have product market fit?" The answer is probably no, you  probably don't.

But if you're so busy and you're frightened that the company's going to  fall apart because you have so many customers coming in asking stuff from you, and  you're just figuring out how do I hire? How do I serve everyone that wants  to come to me? You're too busy to ask that question because you're just making  money hand over fist.

That's product market fit.

You're on the right path.

The whole  thing is it feels like something else.

Change in the company.

It feels like you're  out of control.

If you are in control of your company, you feel like you  can relax and you're sleeping well, you're not on the right track.

Very few companies  ever experience this.

Far back.
Speaker 8:Okay.

Well, this is just if you can talk about your experience doing this because  right now if you're on the other side of the stories where you can go  back to when you were applying to Y Combinator and [inaudible] this and making this  exciting.
Kevin:I'll tell a small anecdote about when I applied to YC and about how this  sort of applies.

When I applied to Y Combinator I was really bad at describing  what our company does, so we actually had pitched two different ideas.

They told us  to prepare for both, and when we got into the interview, one of the ideas  they immediately said, "Not interested," and the other idea we ended up pivoting in the  middle of the interview.

The way I had described the company in the beginning was  I said, "We are building a content-management system that has a concept called reversible forms  that allows you to both put data input in from the back end and also  collect data from users on the front end." That's a horrible description of a company.

 Part of that idea that fed that is like I wanted to be a content-management  system because what was hot at the time, or was buzz, where it was Movable  Type and Wordpress.

We wanted to build software like that and we wanted to build  a new version of this.

I added, not even normal jargon, a made-up jargon that  I put into my description and I pitched it.

Paul Graham was just like, "I  don't know what you're talking about," but he was like, "I think you're building a  form builder." We were like, "No! No!" We looked at everyone in that space.

They  sucked.

They're really bad.

We don't like what they're making.

We don't want to be  there, not realizing that was the opportunity.

Everyone was really bad there, but there were  businesses that still succeeded.

That's the clear example of this from the other side.

I  actually spent a lot of times, Adora and I spent a lot of times, fixing  mentally in our heads what you guys are making or doing.

Actually, after we're reading  applications, a lot of times, partners have to basically re-describe or re-pitch back what you're  making so that way they can understand why they're going to get excited.

I'm going  to do one more question and then we're going to do a combo.

Right here.
Speaker 9:Hello.

How do you tell an idea that has multiple stages? For instance, if you  want to become Z but before that, you need to do X and Y?
Kevin:How do you tell and describe an idea that has multiple stages, like you have  to do part one before you can do part two and three.

I would focus  only on describing what part one is, and then later on, you talk about what  are the other phases that are important.

Oftentimes when I hear something like that, a  YC partner will immediately have an alarm go in their head and they really are  going to push you on why do we really have to do part one? I'm  going to push so hard on why can't we go straight to part three, because  what you're basically saying is it sounds almost like a defense instead of you saying  your strategy.

It sounds like it's, "Hey, I'm going to talk about what my company's  doing but I'm worried that you're going to think it's really small, so don't worry.

 We're going to do parts two and three.

They're going to be even bigger." The  thing is, that's a really weak pitch.

It doesn't sound very confident, et cetera.

What  you want to avoid is saying, "We're doing number..." What you could do is, "We're  doing number three and we're starting with number one." That has to be very efficient,  that number three is very quickly can be said and that number one makes its  sense.

It's like I want to build automated market...

I just met a [inaudible] company  today and they want to make automated marketing software for WhatsApp for small meeting businesses.

 They're starting with hair salons, then they're going to move on to all the other  industries that need help with that.

All right.

Thank you very much.

I'm going to  invite Adora to come on.
